https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=b8754626822de38481e9838fd0136bcc

Titles & Abstracts

Production of HMF and DMF biofuel from carbohydrates through catalytic pathways as a sustainable strategy for the future energy sector
In recent years, green energy sources have been proposed as alternatives for fossil fuels to meet energy demand while minimizing environmental pollution and global climate change. In this context, agricultural residues can be catalytically converted into furan derivatives. Among furan-based compounds, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) are the valuable chemicals that can be converted into desired materials, including fuels. This review article discusses various catalytic HMF and DMF production pathways and the influence of feedstocks, catalysts, solvents, and hydrogen donors on the process yield. Additionally, reaction temperature and H2 pressure effects on the feedstock conversion and HMF and DMF production yields are also presented. The primary attention has been devoted to the literature published in the last five years. However, additional relevant examples have also been discussed to clarify the topic further where necessary. This review aims at providing state-to-the-art information on the current developmental state of DMF and HMF production for researchers in this field. 

A study on biofuel produced from cracking of low density poly ethylenes using TiO2/AlSBA-15 nanocatalysts
The burgeoning concerns over the non-biodegradable plastics wastes could be surpassed either by proper disposal technique or by an effective conversion of the plastic wastes into useful chemicals. Metal oxide; TiO2 and porous; AlSBA-15 catalysts were synthesized and a composite characterized using XRD, BET, N2 adsorption –desorption studies, TPD and SEM techniques. This work was focussed in the catalytic degradation of low density polyethylene over the synthesized catalysts in a fixed bed reactor. A hydrocarbon rich gasoline range of liquid fuel, coke and gas were the expected products from the experiment. The liquid products were analysed using GC MS equipped with J&amp;W Scientific DB-Petro capillary column (100 m × 0.25 mm × 0.5 m). An optimum yield of liquid fuel was obtained with TiO2 catalyst at 1st h of reaction and further the product yield considerably decreased. A marginal increase in % conversion of low density polyethylene into fuel was observed with increasing catalyst: polymer ratio in the presence of TiO2 catalyst till 1:5 ratio. The liquid products contained lower range of hydrocarbons with higher content of active catalyst; while the samples collected at later stage contained heavier components. Mesoporous AlSBA-15 worked comparatively better than TiO2 by converting 89.7% of LDPE into 54.8% combustible liquid products. The catalytic activity of the catalyst followed the order of TiO2/AlSBA-15 (10%) &lt; AlSBA-15 (27) &lt; SiSBA-15 &lt; TiO2. A considerable increase in gasoline fraction from 45.6% to 85.4%, yield of liquid fuel (89.1%) and conversion (98.4%) was observed during cracking in the presence of TiO2/AlSBA-15 catalyst. Plastic liquid fuel produced over the composite catalyst revealed the calorific value of 47.8 MJ/Kg which was higher than the commercial petroleum fuel. Finally, we obtain this biofuel application as mathematical model to evaluate and plot the interaction energy arising from the conjugation of TiO2 - AlSBA-15 nano-catalyst in two possible configuration, linear (conical) and spherical molecules, along the range of the αdistance (z-axis). 

Influence of ultrasound irradiation power on surface design of CaO nanoparticles over secondary carbon-templated meso designed ZSM-5 for biofuel production from vegetable oil
A series of potential bifunctional basic/acidic CaO over hierarchical ZSM-5 nanocatalysts were synthesized and investigated in biofuel production. Secondary hard templating was applied on the ZSM-5 support by carbonaceous charcoal particles in order to increase the pore size in favour of better diffusion of the large triglyceride molecules. The ultrasound irradiation was also applied with three different powers on impregnation of CaO active phase and its effect on well dispersing the particles was investigated. FESEM images showed high distributed and smaller particles on the surface of highly sonicated catalyst compared to the non-sonicated sample and BET-BJH results confirmed the opening of the pores and therefore size and volume increase by sonication. TPD-CO2 results indicated that both secondary templating and sonication have increased the strong basic sites. The particles were also smaller and less agglomerated due to sonication as observed in TEM images. Catalytic performance tests also confirmed the effective role of secondary charcoal templating on the conversion of oil as well as the positive influence of ultrasound irradiation. Sonicated nanocatalyst was also more stable after five times of reusability tests in transesterification of sunflower oil. 

Recent progress in Biomass-derived nanoelectrocatalysts for the sustainable energy development
The changing global approach for protecting the planet and turning to a low-carbon economy has made the growing demand for biomasses at the core of biochemistry. Biomass contains all the substances in nature that in the recent past were living things, made from living organisms or their wastes. Biomass is carbon-based and is a mixture of organic molecules, including hydrogen, usually oxygen, and often nitrogen, and small amounts of other atoms such as alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, and heavy metals. Production and consumption of biomasses grew in sustainable procedures do not cause a net change in the CO2 content of the atmosphere. So, the biomasses can be regarded as carbon neutral due to the mentioned net carbon cycle they involve. Energy production from biomass sources is utilized to generate electricity and heat. These sources are renewable sources and CO2 production of these sources is natural and does not produce greenhouse gases. The development of practical techniques for sustainable energy generation from biomass is one of novel strategy to overcome air pollution and move towards the sustainable bioeconomy. This study reviews recent progress in Biomass-derived nanoelectrocatalysts for the sustainable energy development that includes biomass-based electrocatalyst synthesis, biomass-based nanoelectrocatalysts for water splitting, and biomass-based nanoelectrocatalysts for fuel cells. Finally provides future perspectives to motivate future research such as the necessity to increase agricultural and so food production while reducing inputs to balance biomass valorization for energy production versus biomass upgrading, and to develop practical techniques for cheap pretreatment and metabolic engineering of lignocellulosic and efficient strategies for the commercial-scale production of lignocellulosic based-biofuels. 

Nanotechnology approach for enhancement in biohydrogen production- review on applications of nanocatalyst and life cycle assessment
Renewable energy research has gained momentum due to the fast consumption and lack of sustainability in conventional fuels. As biohydrogen emits no greenhouse gases and can be generated from a variety of waste biomass or feedstocks, it has been referred to as the most effective and cleanest form of energy among all biofuels. In spite of the success of photobiological and dark fermentation methods in generating biohydrogen, they are known to produce lower yields, creating serious obstacles for commercial production. The role of nanoscience and technology in improving the biohydrogen production is achieved through the use of nanomaterials with specific physiochemical and structural properties. In this review, metals, metal oxides, metal alloys, and inorganic nanomaterials are explored in order to improve biohydrogen production. Initial studies have focused on nano materials evaluation in biomass conversion and addressing the current status of nanomaterials in biohydrogen production. The best bio-H2 yield is obtained in the presence of metal nanoparticles (NPs) such as Ag (2.4 mol H2/ mol glucose), Cu (1.74 mol H2/ mol glucose), Fe (3.10 mol H2/ mol malate), alloys of Al/Cu/Fe (4.2 mol H2/ sucrose) and Ni (2.54 mol H2/glucose). The review also addressed the mechanisms involved in changing feedstock into hydrogen through various microbial biorefineries. The life cycle analysis of various nanoparticles applications in biohydrogen production was discussed. 

Insights into the role of nanotechnology on the performance of biofuel cells and the production of viable biofuels: A review
Biofuel cells (BFCs) are devices that use the metabolic reactions in microorganisms during the decomposition of organic pollutants to convert chemical energy from organic materials to electrical energy. Owing to their non-polluting characteristics and price-effectiveness in contrast to fossil fuels, biofuels are rapidly gaining attraction as substitute resources of renewable energy. Although BFCs have numerous applications including waste management, biomaterials, and portable purposes, encouraging their use is difficult due to the limited lifetime and reduced power density. The majority of BFCs created to date are only capable of meeting the energy requirements of biomedical short-term implanted devices. To accelerate their development, however, the attention is shifting to the deployment of technology that will enhance their productivity. Nanotechnological approaches appear to be the most promising in this context. Nanotechnologies are one of the most intriguing scientific and technological revolutions in recent history, with applications in biofuels and bioenergy. Nanoparticles are gaining popularity among scientists due to their unique qualities, which allow them to be used in a variety of industries including agriculture, electronic devices, medicines, and food processing. The use of nanoscale materials in the production of BFCs has been extensively researched and reported as a viable technique for enhancing their performance. In this review, insights about BFCs, classification, and beneficial applications of biofuel cells are explored. The purpose of this work is to highlight recent advances in the development of various nanomaterials, such as metallic nanomaterials, magnetic nanomaterials, carbon nanoparticles, etc. for enhancing the efficiency of biofuel cells as well as biofuel production such as biodiesel, biohydrogen, biogas, and bioethanol synthesis, intending to enhance process yields. Furthermore, based on the current knowledge of numerous influencing factors on the efficacy of nanoparticles, current prospects and research needs in biofuel industrial operations are also identified and discussed. 

Biodiesel production process catalyzed by acid-treated golden apple snail shells (Pomacea canaliculata)-derived cao as a high-performance and green catalyst
In this study, acid-treated golden apple snail shells (Pomacea canaliculata)-derived calcium oxide (CaO_tr) were used as a high-performance catalyst for the transesterification of palm oil and waste cooking oil (WCO) because the golden apple snail shells were found in plenty in Thailand, and they were also the major pest of rice. The obtained final materials were calcined in air at 800 °C for 3 h referred by TGA analysis denoting as CaO_tr catalyst. All of the catalysts were characterized and tested by using several techniques including XRD, EDX, SEM, basic strength by Hammett indicator method, total basic site by TPD-CO2, and BET specific surface area by N2 adsorption. The results indicated that the CaO_tr had a specific surface area of 7.5544 m2/g and it was higher than CaO_un approximately 2 times. The kinetics of the reaction followed pseudo-first-order with the rates constants of reaction (k) equal 1.35☓10-2 min-1 for the reaction which catalyzed by acid-treated golden apple snail shells-derived CaO catalyst (CaO_tr), while un-treated golden apple snail shells-derived CaO catalyst (CaO_un) gave k value of 1.18☓10-2 min-1, respectively. Under the optimal of reaction conditions at catalyst loading of 5 wt. %, methanol/oil molar ratio of 12:1, reaction temperature 65 °C, and 5% v/v relative to the amount of methanol of THF as a co-solvent; more than 97% yield of biodiesel could be achieved in 150 min by using CaO_tr. The final part, biodiesel product obtained from palm oil and WCO catalyzed by CaO_tr catalyst has high quality and meets the specified standards of biofuels for the diesel engines both of the EN-14214 and ASTM-D6751 standard testing method. Thus, the utilization of the acid treatment method for enhancement of the catalytic activity of CaO catalyst from golden apple snail shells and the applied co-solvent method for increase the performance of biodiesel production was a process with a high potential in the biodiesel production for the community scale and industrial scale., Paulus Editora. All rights reserved.

Residual palm kernel expeller as the support material and alimentation provider in enhancing attached microalgal growth for quality biodiesel production
Albeit the biodiesel production from suspended microalgal system has gained immense interests in recent years, the domineering limitation of being economically infeasible has hindered this technology from partaking into a large-scale operation. To curtail this issue, attached growth system had been introduced by various studies; however, those were still unable to alleviate the socio-economic challenges faced in commercializing the microalgal biomass production. Thus, this study had developed a novel approach in cultivating-cum-harvesting attached Chlorella vulgaris sp. microalgae, whilst using solid organic waste of palm kernel expeller (PKE) as the supporting and alimentation material for microalgal biofilm formation. The effects of three variables, namely, PKE dosage, light intensity, and photoperiod, were initially modelled and later optimized using Response Surface Methodology tool. The derived statistical models could predict the growth performances of attached microalgal biomass and lipid productivity. The optimum growing condition was attained at PKE dosage of 5.67 g/L, light intensity of 197 μmol/m2 s and photoperiod of 8 light and 16 dark hours/cycle, achieving the microalgal density and lipid content of 9.87 ± 0.05 g/g and 3.39 ± 0.28 g/g, respectively, with lipid productivity of 29.6 mg/L day. This optimum condition had led to the intensification of biodiesel quality with a high percentage of monounsaturated fatty acid, i.e., oleic acid (C18:1), encompassing 81.86% of total fatty acid methyl ester components. Given that the positive acquisition of PKE as an excellent supporting material in enhancing the microalgal density and lipid productivity that had resulted in the commercially viable biodiesel quality, this study served as a novel revolution in augmenting the microalgae and solid waste utilities for sustainable energy generation. 

Uniform mesoporous hierarchical nanosized zeolite Y for production of Hydrocarbon-like biofuel under H2-Free deoxygenation
Energy is an indispensable part in 21st century and most of our energy demands are supplied by the fossil fuel. However, the environmental and sustainable issues associated with the burning of fossil fuel have motivated the production of biofuel. Zeolite Y is a well-known solid acid catalyst due to its outstanding properties such as large uniform micropore (0.73 nm), high surface area and intrinsic acidity. Unfortunately, the sole micropore of zeolite Y has imposed diffusional limitation for bulky molecules that lead to low catalytic activity and catalyst deactivation due to pore blockage. In this work, we have adopted two synthesis strategies to solve diffusional limitation of conventional zeolite Y. First, mixing the precursor solution and organosilane template at low temperature (4 °C). Secondly, recrystallization of zeolite gel solution at low hydrothermal temperature (80 °C). With these efforts, a series of hierarchical nanosized zeolite Y were prepared with different amount of dimethyloctadecyl[3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl]ammonium chloride (TPOAC) (molar ratio of 0.5, 1.5, and 2.5) as a template. The amount of TPOAC added has altered the physicochemical properties of zeolites such as porosity and acidity. The best hierarchical nanosized zeolite Y (MY0.15) was prepared with 0.15 M ratio of TPOAC. It is a 300 nm large aggregate made up of 50 nm zeolite nanocrystals. Besides that, it exhibits a uniform mesopore of 5.8 nm and an acidity of 1.73 mmol/g with a B/L ratio of 0.24. The deoxygenation performance of synthesized zeolites was evaluated through deoxygenation of triolein under H2-free condition at 380 °C for 2 h. The nanosized zeolite Y (MY0) showed a triolein conversion of 47.3% and hydrocarbon selectivity of 60.3%. The presence of uniform mesopore in MY0.15 has improved the conversion and hydrocarbon selectivity to 61.1% and 68.5%, respectively. In terms of initial rate, MY0.15 was 1.7 times faster than that of MY0. In addition, the MY0.15 showed good reusability by retaining 88% of its initial activity after four consecutive runs. Therefore, uniform hierarchical nanosized zeolite Y appears to be an effective catalyst in producing hydrocarbon-like biofuel via H2-free condition and other reactions involving bulky reactants. 

Role of nanotechnology for the conversion of lignocellulosic biomass into biopotent energy: A biorefinery approach for waste to value-added products
The development of low-cost bioenergy from the world's most abundant lignocellulosic biomass (LCB) is critical, as is tackling the issue of environmental contamination. In this context, nanomaterials have been used as catalysts for the production of sugars and derivative compounds that are easily absorbed by LCB cells. NPs derived from microorganisms can protect fermenting strains, hence increasing biofuel yield. Enzymes immobilised on nanoparticles or coupled with nanomaterials can be used to hydrolyze LCB in unique and ecologically friendly methods. Nanomaterials improve the efficiency, reusability, and stability of enzymes. Magnetic nanoparticles, in particular, have carved out a place for themselves through the process of downstreaming LCB effluents at a significant cost savings and increased efficiency. The role of nanotechnology and nanoparticles in the refining of LCB into a variety of commercially valuable products and precursors is highlighted in this review. This article successfully illustrates the relationship between nanotechnology concepts and the LCB refinery process. 

The novel advancements of nanomaterials in biofuel cells with a focus on electrodes’ applications
Biofuel cells (BFCs) convert biochemical energy into electrical energy by virtue of the biocatalyst component. They incorporate bio-catalysts composed of microorganisms and enzymes. BFCs are considered among the novel technologies for the production of potable water/electricity and self-powered biosensors simultaneously. However, BFCs, still suffer from various drawbacks, namely, the short lifetime, difficulty in optimizing the optimum operating conditions (substrate concentration and pH), and designing electrodes of sufficient surface area, hence, leading to low power densities and reduced columbic efficiencies. The utilization of nanomaterials in the bioelectrode construction of BFCs has been proposed and demonstrated promising improvement in performance, including electron transfer, thermal and mechanical stability, and conversion efficiency. The use of nanomaterials in bio-electrodes provided large active surface areas between enzymes/electrodes, thus, improving electron kinetics. Carbon-based nanostructures in particular, i.e., carbon-based nanomaterials such as graphene/fullerenes/carbon nanotubes (CNTs)/carbon nanofibers (CNFs), conducting polymers/composites, and metallic nanoparticles/oxides have been extensively investigated. These studies highlighted the progress made in the use of nanomaterials/enzymatic immobilizations for improving the performances of electrodes. Challenges and opportunities related to the stability and durability of BFCs for long-term applications have been discussed for future development directions. Furthermore, recommendations on novel designs of nanomaterials possessing good electrical properties, optimized porous matrix, and ease of separation in nanomaterials/enzymes systems have been discussed for green energy production. 

Influence of O2-content on gas-injected solution combustion design of nanostructured Mg-Al solid-solution used in transformation of vegetable fats to biofuel
The effect of variable O2 concentrations (5%, 10%, 15%, and 21%) in the injection mixing gas was examined on the properties of MgO/MgAl2O4 nanocatalysts created with solution combustion method for biofuel production. The results of XRD, FESEM, TEM, EDX, BET, FTIR and TG/DTG manifested that among all above-mentioned O2 contents injected into synthesis pot, the 21% O2 sample provides the possibility for the fuel to undergo complete combustion leading to superior characteristics of this nanocatalyst including better dispersion of MgO on the support, well-formed crystals, higher surface area with large pore volume and higher catalytic performance during transformation of vegetable fats to biofuel (98.2%) compared to the other samples without any gas injection or with lower oxygen contents. The conversion of air injected sample indicated only 2.8% connversion loss after five rounds of use, indicative of a mesoporous catalyst with still an acceptable conversion rate (93.8%) for biodiesel production. Elsevier B.V.

Tuning dual active sites of Cu/CoCeOx catalysts for efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran
Much attention has been attracted on the production of renewable biofuels through efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) reaction. In this study, a series of Cu/CoCeOx catalysts were synthesized by a facile coprecipitation method for CTH of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to different products with 2-propanol as a hydrogen donor, and the dual active sites of CuCo and CoCeOx were tuned via H2-reduction temperature. A 92.2% yield of 2,5-dihydroxymethylfuran (DHMF) was achieved at 150 °C over the Cu4Co8Ce4-300 catalyst, and a 95.4% yield of 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) was obtained over the Cu4Co10Ce2-600 catalyst at 170 °C. The roles of the dual active sites were further investigated, and the results showed that Cu species were identified as the major active sites of 2-propanol dehydrogenation, CoCeOx sites were responsible for the conversion of HMF to DHMF, and CuCo bimetallic nanoparticles promoted the cleavage of C-O in DHMF to obtain DMF. XRD, Raman, and HAADF-STEM analysis confirmed the existence of these sites. XPS and H2-TPR verified the formation of CuCo bimetallic nanoparticles, and NH3-TPD was employed to evaluate the acidity of the surface. Furthermore, in situ DRIFT of furfuryl alcohol and performance test experiments were conducted to understand the synergistic mechanism of dual active sites in hydrogen transfer from 2-propanol to HMF. This work provides a strategy to obtain different target products via tuning dual active sites. 

Role of nanomaterials in enhanced ethanol production through biological methods – Review on operating factors and machine learning applications
Renewable energy sources based on biomass are identified as sustainable solution to balance the carbon footprint and fuel requirements. The characteristics of bioethanol make it an ideal fuel additive due to its eco-friendliness and calorific value. Fermentation technology is used to convert carbohydrate-rich biomass into biofuel, but technical glitches and high costs have been identified as drawbacks. Nanomaterials have contributed significantly to bioethanol synthesis in terms of enhanced surface activity and selectivity. By using nanoparticles, various steps in the production of bio-alcohol can be made more efficient and cheaper. Based on the extensive review carried out, the best bioethanol yield reported were: dolomite at 121 °C (106%), methyl-functionalized cobalt ferrite– silica at 37 °C (126.9%) and calcium alginate at 37 °C (100%). Magnetic iron oxide covered cellulase yielded 60% in the temperature range of 24–96 °C and Silica-immobilized cellulase yielded 32 g/L at 25–60 °C. Methyl-functionalized cobalt ferrite–silica emerged as an efficient nano-bio catalyst as it gives highest ethanol yield at moderate temperature (37 °C) and pressure (1–2 atm). The mechanism of action of the nanoparticles is discussed in this research and the future directions of research are proposed. Machine learning applications for the prediction of bioethanol yield were discussed in detail. 

Novel insight on ferric ions addition to mitigate recalcitrant formation during thermal-alkali hydrolysis to enhance biomethanation
Thermal-chemical pre-treatment has proven to facilitate the solubilization of organics and improvement in biogas generation from the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW). However, the production of recalcitrant is inevitable when OFMSW is pretreated at high temperatures and alkali dosage. This study develops a strategy to use Fe3+ to reduce the formation of recalcitrant compounds, i.e., 5-HydroxyMethyl Furfural (5-HMF), furfurals, and humic acids (HA) during thermal-alkali pre-treatment. It was postulated that the formation of the recalcitrant compound during pre-treatment can be reduced by Fe3+ dosing to oxidize intermediates of Maillard reactions. A decrease in 5-HMF (45–49%) and furfurals (54–66%) was observed during Fe3+ (optimum dose: 10 mg/L) mediated thermal-alkali pre-treatment owing to the Lewis acid behavior of FeCl3. The Fe3+ mediated assays show a substantial improvement in VS removal (28%) and biogas yield, i.e., 31% (292 mL/gVSadded) in 150 °C + 3 g/L NaOH, 34% (316 mL/gVSadded) in 175 °C + 3 g/L NaOH, and 36% (205 mL/gVSadded) in 200 °C + 3 g/L NaOH assays, over their respective controls (no Fe3+ dosing). The reducing property of Fe3+ rendered a low ORP (−345 mV) in the system than control, which is beneficial to the anaerobic microbiome. Electrical conductivity (EC) also shows a three-fold increase in Fe3+ mediated assays over control, promoting direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) amongst microbes involved in the electrical syntrophy. The score plot and loading plots from principal component analysis (PCA) showed that the results obtained by supplementing 10 mg/L Fe3+ at 150, 175, and 200 °C were significantly different. The correlation of the operational parameters was also mutually correlated. This work provides a techno-economically and environmentally feasible option to mitigate the formation of recalcitrant compounds and enhance biogas production in downstream AD by improving the degradability of pretreated substrate. Elsevier B.V.

Mixotrophic microalgal-biofilm reactor augmenting biomass and biofuel productivity
The present work aimed to evaluate the mixotrophic growth of Chlorella pyrenoidosa in a microalgal-biofilm reactor (MBR) using waste glycerol as an organic carbon source. The biomass productivity of C. pyrenoidosa (10.14 g m−2 d−1) under the mixotrophic mode was remarkably higher than that observed during the phototrophic mode (4.16 g m−2 d−1), under similar incubation conditions. The hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 6 d was found optimal for the higher productivity of microalgae in the MBR. Notably, based on biofuel quality, mixotrophically grown microalgal biomass was noted to have better suitability for biomethane production compared to biodiesel. Besides, up to 98.09, 75.74, and 55.86% removal of phosphate, nitrate, and COD, respectively, was recorded within 6 d under mixotrophic growth. Overall, the present findings magnificently demonstrate the efficient recycling of waste glycerol for higher biomass production coupled with phycoremediation using mixotrophic MBR. 

A durable Ni/La-Y catalyst for efficient hydrogenation of γ-valerolactone into pentanoic biofuels
Zeolite-supported metal catalysts containing hydrogenation centers and acid sites are promising in the chemoselective hydrogenation of biomass platform molecules into value-added chemicals and fuels. The primary challenge of employing such bifunctional catalysts for biomass conversion lies in catalyst stability in the liquid phase under harsh conditions. Herein, we have prepared a Ni/La-Y nanocatalyst via an improved wet impregnation method. Compared with Ni nanoparticles on H-Y, La addition shows a significantly enhanced stability and performance in the continuous liquid-phase hydrogenation of γ-valerolactone (GVL) into ethyl pentanoate (EP) at 200 °C for 1000 h. Complementary characterization studies reveal that La addition in the metal/zeolite catalyst not only efficiently modulates the acid property of the zeolite to alleviate coke formation, but also suppresses zeolite dealumination and metal agglomeration and leaching upon catalysis over a 1000 h period. These findings provide an efficient approach for improving the stability of zeolite-supported bifunctional catalysts, leading to potential application in hydrogen-assisted biomass valorization under the liquid-phase conditions.

Nanoparticles as stimulants for efficient generation of biofuels and renewables
Fossil fuels have caused irreversible damage to the ecosystem, and finding alternatives is critical to prevent futher degradation. To effectively tackle the fossil fuels dilemma, biofuels can encounter current energy demands by re-proposing existing biomass as feedstocks for biotransformation into various energy forms, such as bioethanol, biohydrogen. Because current methods cannot fully exploit the potential, the concept of using nanomaterials to accelerate the process was developed. Nanoparticles have a lot of potential for producing biofuels in a sustainable and commercially viable way. In the dark- and photo-fermentative organisms feed sugars and biowaste materials, the potential function of nanoparticles in enhancing bioethanol and biohydrogen generation has been investigated. The ability to use nano-supports in different subfields for biocatalysts might be a significant strategy for achieving the economic feasibility of several processes that are now being investigated, with minimal or no interference from nanosized particles in catalytic activity. Furthermore, nanocatalysts can be employed in different areas to chemically catalyze cellulose depolymerization or oil and fat transesterification with great efficiency. While there are hazards associated with every new technology, and the world is now far better positioned to analyze those risks and respond appropriately, it appears that the application of nanotechnology to biofuels may be advanced without harming security, public health, or the environment. 

Enhancing β-aryl ether bond cleavage of lignin model dimer via benzylic alcohol dehydration
Lignin has immense potential for the production of monoaromatics that can be further prepared as target chemicals or alkyl biofuels. In this work, experiments and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were employed to investigate the effect of benzylic alcohol (α-hydroxyl group, CαH─OH) dehydration to α,β-alkenyl group (Cα = Cβ) on the enhancement of the β-aryl ether (β-O-4) bond cleavage reactivity of lignin model dimer over Pd/C by formic acid. This study demonstrated that the β-O-4 bond cleavage reactivity was significantly enhanced via the benzylic alcohol dehydration to Cα = Cβ. The cleavage reactivity of the β-O-4 bond attached to Cα functional groups was in the order of α-hydrogen atom (CαH─H) &gt; CαH─OH &gt; α-carbonyl group (Cα = O). An easy formation of the CαH─H from the Cα = Cβ hydrogenation led to the enhancement of the β-O-4 bond cleavage reactivity being achieved. The β-O-4 bond cleavage rate was increased by 6.2 times in the presence of the CαH─H compared to the Cα = O. Due to few and lower required energy barriers after CαH─OH dehydration, the β-O-4 bond attached to the Cα = Cβ was more thermodynamically favorable to be cleaved. The work highlights the prospect of efficient depolymerization of lignin into monoaromatics. 

Palm fatty acid distillate esterification using synthesized heterogeneous sulfonated carbon catalyst from plastic waste: Characterization, catalytic efficacy and stability, and fuel properties
The extensive use of plastics in industries and households contributes to the proliferation of plastic waste (PW) in landfills, the oceans, and the environment, which represents a serious threat to numerous fragile ecosystems. Recycling rates for PW are still low, so solutions to the problem of waste accumulation are urgently needed. We report the transformation of waste polyethylene terephthalate food containers into plastic waste char (PWC) via anaerobic pyrolysis and subsequent conversion to an acidic solid catalyst for conversion of palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) into biodiesel. Such an approach could provide a promising solution to the environmental issue of PW while simultaneously facilitating production of biofuels. In this study, PW was carbonized at 600 °C to yield a carbon precursor that was subsequently treated with sulfuric acid at three sulfonation ratios (1:10, 1:15 and 1:20) to give a series of solid acid sulfonated carbon catalysts, PWC-SO₃H (a), (b) and (c). The synthesized PWC-SO₃H catalysts were thermally stable up to 375 °C. The deposition of sulfonic acid groups onto the catalytic surface was confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. Surface morphology analysis revealed a mesoporous textural structure with random sulfonate group distribution. Changes in crystallinity for PWC and PWC-SO₃H catalysts were determined by x-ray diffraction spectroscopy and supported by Raman analysis. The catalysts were then evaluated for biodiesel production efficacy via esterification of PFAD with methanol. The PWC-SO₃H (b) catalyst (1:15 impregnation ratio) provided the highest yield of PFAD-derived-biodiesel (96.9%) under the optimum reaction conditions of 5 wt% catalyst at 110 °C for 2 h with a methanol to PFAD molar ratio of 18:1. Recyclability studies revealed that the PWC-SO₃H (b) catalyst was reusable for four consecutive reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity. Lastly, the fuel properties of the resulting PFAD biodiesel were within the limits prescribed in ASTM D6751, the American biodiesel standard. The Institution of Chemical Engineers

Hydrogenation of the pivotal biorefinery platform molecule levulinic acid into renewable fuel γ-valerolactone catalyzed by unprecedented highly active and stable ruthenium nanoparticles in aqueous media
γ-Valerolactone (GVL) is a key downstream product of renewable biomass with enormous potential for the manufacture of advanced biofuels, bio-based chemicals, materials or for its direct use as an additive to gasoline and is obtained by the hydrogenation reaction of the important platform molecule levulinic acid (LA). Unprecedented high catalytic activities (TOF = 42530 h−1) have been achieved by water-dispersible ruthenium nanoparticles (RuNPs) stabilized by a broad spectrum of water-soluble polymers with both oxygen-containing functionalities such as the non-toxic and inexpensive polyethylene glycol (PEG) and poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) and with polymers bearing nitrogen-groups in the hydrogenation of LA to obtain with high selectivities (99.2 mol%) GVL in the aqueous medium. Furthermore, water provides for a desired higher dispersion of RuNPs catalysts capable to achieve high activities and impressive stabilities. The calculated apparent activation energy of the RuNPs/PEG catalyst amounts a low value of 32.3 kJ/mol. TEM investigations revealed the formation of RuNPs/PVA catalysts with a small average particle size diameter of 2.8 ± 0.1 nm which is consistent with the high catalytic activities. Recycling experiments have shown that the RuNPs/PVA catalyst demonstrated superb stability and selectivity in five consecutive runs at a high molar ratio LA/Ru = 16000 which is of industrial interest. The Authors

Classical vs. reactive distillation technologies for biodiesel production: An environmental comparison using LCA methodology
Sustainable fuels and technologies are expected to significantly contribute towards climate change mitigation considering that the transportation sector provides a 23% share out of the total CO2 emissions. Biodiesel is a green fuel produced by transesterification of triglycerides with an alcohol in the presence of a catalyst. The current study entails modelling and simulation of biodiesel production, through an acid transesterification process, using both classic and intensified methods, coupled with an environmental impact analysis performed following the Life Cycle Assessment methodology. The traditional biodiesel production consists in the synthesis and separation sections, while the intensified method is based on reactive distillation. ChemCAD software was used to simulate and evaluate the processes from a technical point of view. Methanol is generated using CO2 and H2, this method being considered as a new approach for CO2 utilization. Water electrolysis is employed for H2 generation, with either biomass or natural gas as power source. A cradle-to-gate environmental analysis is performed within the current research by means of GaBi software, considering the following system boundaries: i) upstream processes: catalyst supply chain, sunflower oil supply chain, natural gas supply chain, limestone extraction and decomposition, ii) main-processes: methanol and biodiesel production, iii) downstream processes: disposal of wastes. ReCiPe method was chosen as the impact assessment method. High purities for the main product and by-product are obtained (i.e., purities higher than 99%). The outcome of the process simulation points to the conclusion that the intensified path gives better performances from technical point of view. The environmental results show that the classic approach performs better when CO2 and H2 are used as raw materials, while reactive distillation displays a higher efficiency when natural gas is used as feedstock. 

Insights into the interfacial effects in Cu-Co/CeOx catalysts on hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran
The interface site between metal and support possess unique electronic and morphological structure, providing distinct active centers for favorable reaction in catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives to valuable chemicals. In this study, a series of Cu-Co/CeOx catalysts were prepared for hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) via reduction of the corresponding layered double hydroxide precursors. The characterizations indicated the formation of CoCe-Vö interface (Vö denotes oxygen vacancy) and the effect of hydrogen spillover from Cu species to CoCe-Vö interface. Furthermore, the experiments and theoretical calculations verified that CoCe-Vö interface could activate the C[sbnd]O bond. The optimized catalyst showed a DMF yield of &gt; 90% at 180 °C and 1.5 MPa H2 with no deactivation in the cycling tests. This study reveals the interfacial effects of the nanocatalysts, including the oxygen vacancies and hydrogen spillover, on hydrogenolysis of HMF, which provided a simple and efficient approach for synthesis of high-performance non-noble metal nanocatalysts applied to the hydrogenolysis of various biomass derivatives. Elsevier Inc.

WCO biodiesel production by heterogeneous catalyst and using cadmium (II)-based supramolecular coordination polymer additives to improve diesel/biodiesel fueled engine performance and emissions
Recently, research organizations and researchers have been working on finding and producing clean and alternatives to fuels such as biofuels, and thus using new technologies to reduce harmful emissions such as nanoparticle technology. In this regard the use of heterogeneous catalyst for producing biodiesel is classified as a new promising technology as of its characterization for saving in the production total cost. Heterogeneous transesterification reaction is applied to change the waste cooking oil WCO triglycerides to methyl esters with applying lower concentration of alcohol, while the yielded biodiesel has fitted the ASTM norms. In the current investigation, the maximum biodiesel yield obtained was 95% at optimal reaction conditions of 60 min reaction time, 60 °C reaction temperature, 0.01 mass% TiO2 nano-catalyst, 0.3 mass% NaoH, and 1:10 V/V% oil to methanol percentage. Also, the influence of diesel, biodiesel blend, and Cadmium (II)-Based supramolecular coordination polymer nano-additives, {[Cd (EIN)2(SCN)2]}, SCP 1, on the performance and emissions of DI diesel engine were studied experimentally by varying the engine load at 1400 rpm. While the obtained results show a great reduction in UHC, CO, and NOx emissions with increasing the SCP 1 nanomaterials. However, the CO2 emissions show a unique increase in its value by adding SCP 1 as a nanoparticle. If 70 ppm of SCP 1 is used the brake thermal efficiency (BTE) has reached 31.2% as associated with the tested fuels. Also, temperature of the engine exhaust (EGT) was analyzed for all tested fuels, where a consequent reduction was observed., Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, Hungary.

Selective hydrogenolysis of C-O bonds in lignin and its model compounds over a high-performance Ru/AC catalyst under mild conditions
Selective hydrogenolysis of C-O bonds in lignin is regarded as the most promising strategy to produce high value-added biofuels and chemicals. Herein, Ru/AC catalysts of Ru supported on AC from coal tar pitch were successfully prepared and could effectively promote the cleavage of C-O bonds in diphenyl ether (DPE), benzyl phenyl ether (BPE) and lignin under mild conditions. In the case of an activation ratio of 4:1, the obtained Ru/4-1AC possessed the large specific surface area, more defects, small Ru metal particle size and low Ru0 bonding energy, exhibiting the high catalytic performance. The conversion investigation of the mixture of DPE and BPE revealed that BPE was preferentially adsorbed on Ru metal of the catalyst surface for the C-O bond cleavage due to the lower bond dissociation energy of C-O bonds of BPE and the stronger adsorption energy of BPE calculated by a density functional theory. 

Nanomaterials for transforming barrier properties of lignocellulosic biomass towards potential applications – A review
Wood with many of its useful components builds and supports the flora, besides having a commercial significance. Coatings on the wood are used to preserve it from degradation by physical, chemical, and biological attacks, and this attribute is considered as a barrier property. Latter due to commercialization, the non-permeability to volatile substances and gases is also considered as a part of barrier property. Renewable and biodegradable cellulose derivatives and lignin have been known for their porosity, hydrophilicity, and barrier property. Hemicellulose and lignin are not preferred much when compared to cellulose for many commercial applications. However, the onset of nanotechnology has made utilization of these waste or non-treatable by-products of lignocellulosic biomass as potential barrier coatings in the food and paper industry. Moreover, the weakening process of lignocellulosic biomass by microbial enzymes or microbes conjointly with nanoparticles decreases the barrier property which could be utilized for biofuel applications. Nanomaterial conjugated hemicellulose has exhibited the lowest oxygen and vapor permeability level of 0.1799 cm3·μm/m2·d·kPa and 2.75 × 10−11 g/m·s respectively, whereas lignin seems to have long term moisture control for up to 189%. The current review highlights the progress in transforming the lignocellulosic biomass derivatives for food, paper, and biofuel industrial applications. 

Selective hydroconversion of coconut oil-derived lauric acid to alcohol and aliphatic alkane over MoOx-modified Ru catalysts under mild conditions
Molybdenum oxide-modified ruthenium on titanium oxide (Ru-(y)MoOx/TiO2; y is the loading amount of Mo) catalysts show high activity for the hydroconversion of carboxylic acids to the corresponding alcohols (fatty alcohols) and aliphatic alkanes (biofuels) in 2-propanol/water (4.0/1.0 v/v) solvent in a batch reactor under mild reaction conditions. Among the Ru-(y)MoOx/TiO2 catalysts tested, the Ru-(0.026)MoOx/TiO2 (Mo loading amount of 0.026 mmol g−1) catalyst shows the highest yield of aliphatic n-alkanes from hydroconversion of coconut oil derived lauric acid and various aliphatic fatty acid C6-C18 precursors at 170-230 °C, 30-40 bar for 7-20 h. Over Ru-(0.026)MoOx/TiO2, as the best catalyst, the hydroconversion of lauric acid at lower reaction temperatures (130 ≥ T ≤ 150 °C) produced dodecane-1-ol and dodecyl dodecanoate as the result of further esterification of lauric acid and the corresponding alcohols. An increase in reaction temperature up to 230 °C significantly enhanced the degree of hydrodeoxygenation of lauric acid and produced n-dodecane with maximum yield (up to 80%) at 230 °C, H2 40 bar for 7 h. Notably, the reusability of the Ru-(0.026)MoOx/TiO2 catalyst is slightly limited by the aggregation of Ru nanoparticles and the collapse of the catalyst structure. The Royal Society of Chemistry

Biodiesel production from tucumã (Astrocaryum aculeatum Meyer) almond oil applying the electrolytic paste of spent batteries as a catalyst
Improper disposal of batteries can cause several environmental problems. Thus, this work aimed to apply the electrolytic paste (SB) of spent AA batteries as a catalyst. The SB was heat-treated (400 and 800 °C) and characterized by FTIR, XRF, XRD, TGA, SEM-EDX, titratable acidity, and soluble alkalinity. Although the thermal treatment changed the constituent phases, a majority presence of manganese and zinc was observed in the materials. The extracted tucumã almond oil was also characterized, showing a high percentage of saturated fatty acids (75%) and high acidity (9.25 KOH/g oil). The untreated SB showed higher acidity (0.02 mmol/g) and, consequently, higher catalytic activity in transesterification reactions, resulting in good conversions (>97%). Temperature and reaction time were the most significant parameters, according to ANOVA. SB also showed high catalytic activity in the esterification of oleic acid, achieving good conversions (96%). Thus, the electrolytic paste proved to be a potentially efficient and eco-friendly catalyst for biodiesel production, even from highly acidic oils. 

One-pot conversion of biomass-derived levulinic acid to furanic biofuel 2-methyltetrahydrofuran over bimetallic NiCo/γ-Al2O3 catalysts
The production of furanic biofuel 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (2-MTHF) has been studied by hydrodeoxygenation of biomass-derived levulinic acid (LA) over bimetallic NiCo/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. The contents of Ni and Co in NiCo/γ-Al2O3 were investigated. The Ni5Co25/γ-Al2O3 catalyst gave high activity in hydrodeoxygenation of LA with a 73.4% yield of 2-MTHF under optimal conditions. The crystal phase, valence states, acidity and basicity of catalysts were measured by multiple characterizations to understand the relationships among 2-MTHF yields and catalyst properties. XPS characterization revealed that the number of metal oxides increased on bimetallic catalysts while the reduced metals occupied on monometallic catalysts. The bimetallic catalysts also presented increased acidity than that of monometallic catalysts. These distinct properties were also observed among bimetallic catalysts with different contents of Ni and Co, which were responsible for different performances. Besides, the solvent effect on the structure of 1,4-pentanediol, which was further converted to 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, was disclosed by molecular dynamics simulations. Elsevier B.V.

Techno-economic assessment of the biodiesel production using natural minerals rocks as a heterogeneous catalyst via conventional and ultrasonic techniques
The pollution problems and limited availability of diesel fuel urge the world to substitute it with clean biodiesel. The biggest obstacle to use biodiesel as a fuel is its high price. Using waste feedstock, cheap catalysts, and advanced production techniques can decrease the biodiesel price to be reasonable. This research can be divided into a technical part and an economic part. The technical one investigates biodiesel production from used cooking oil (UCO) and heterogeneous natural minerals rocks (NMR) catalyst via two different techniques conventional and ultrasonic. The technical study reveals that the ultrasonic technique has many advantages over the conventional one, as it does not need any feedstock pretreatment steps (one-step reaction), and uses a lower catalyst loading, methanol, and reaction time to produce the same biodiesel yield of about 99%. The second part relates to an economic study performed on a biodiesel plant with a capacity of 150 thousand tons per year based on the optimum operating conditions obtained from the technical part. The economic assessment proves that biodiesel production using NMR and UCO is very profitable, and the ultrasonic process achieves a higher net profit than the conventional one. The economic study concludes that the cost of the biodiesel that is produced via the ultrasonic method is 0.63 $/L and via the conventional method is 0.72 $/L, and both values are below the biodiesel selling price (0.78 $/L). 

Low-temperature hydrothermal liquefaction of pomelo peel for production of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural-rich bio-oil using ionic liquid loaded ZSM-5
Ionic liquid loaded ZSM-5 with high stability and catalytic performance was used for hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of pomelo peel for the first time. Bio-oil obtained at 200 °C had the highest yield (29.21 wt%) and high heating value (21.41 MJ/kg), with main constituents of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF, 50.10%), 3-Pyridinol (19.8%) and pentanoic acid (5.35%). The higher 5-hydroxymethylfurfural yield obtained using ionic liquid loaded ZSM-5 was further compared to other studies (0–50%). In comparison to high-temperature HTL, catalytic HTL with ionic liquid loaded ZSM-5 led to lower activation energy requirements (31.93 kJ·mol−1) for the conversion of glucose into 5-HMF. Additionally, the catalysts showed excellent recyclability, with 19.68 wt% of bio-oil containing 59.6% of light oil obtained after 5 cycles. Hence, this study presents a novel approach for the catalytic conversion of lignocellulosic biomass into 5-HMF-rich bio-oil for energy and green chemistry applications. 

Synthesis of MgO/MgSO4 nanocatalyst by thiourea–nitrate solution combustion for biodiesel production from waste cooking oil
A novel MgO/MgSO4 nanocatalyst was synthesized using solution combustion method with thiourea as the fuel. The in-situ inducement of sulfonated group over the basic catalyst, MgO, was carried out for the first time using thiourea for the production of biodiesel. The synthesized nanocatalyst with its bi-functional characteristics performed efficiently in the simultaneous transesterification and esterification of high free fatty acid (FFA) containing waste cooking oil (WCO) into biodiesel in the presence of ultrasound. The newly developed nanocatalyst was characterized by XRD, FESEM, EDS, FTIR and BET analyses. The resulting nanocatalyst possesses a specific surface area of 82 m2/g and a pore volume of 0.047 cm3/g. The high sulfur content of 13.65% of the novel catalyst developed facilitates its high acidic characteristics suitable for the esterification step. The optimization of the process carried out by the response surface methodology (RSM) predicted the optimized parameters as follows: methanol to oil molar ratio-9.4:1, catalyst loading-8.9 wt%, ultrasonic power-402 W and reaction time-46 min. The optimum yield of biodiesel predicted by the RSM was 98.8%. The synthesized nanocatalyst demonstrated high stability which established significant future perspective for industrial production of biodiesel from low cost, high FFA containing feedstock. 

A comparative assessment of biofuel products from rice husk and oil palm empty fruit bunch obtained from conventional and microwave pyrolysis
Background: Pyrolysis is an alternative heating method developed to produce bio-oil, biogas, and biochar from biomass, including oil palm empty fruit bunch (EFB) and rice husk (RH) pellets. This work focused on the comparison of the products obtained from microwave pyrolysis (MP) and conventional pyrolysis (CP). Methods: The experimental work was carried out using MP and CP at 500 °C and 800 °C. The properties of biochars produced from these reactions were characterized. The biofuels were characterized using FTIR and GC-MS, while the biogas was measured using GC-TCD. The composition of the H2 gas or syngas was also analyzed. Significant Findings: MP improved the yield of bio-oil and biochar, but the percentage of biogas yield decreased. The yield of bio-oil produced from the MP of RH and EFB pellets reacted at 800 °C increased significantly from 12.2 to 20.6 wt.% and 15.5 to 20.2 wt.%, respectively. The bio-oil derived from MP has a high content of monoaromatics and phenolic compounds compared to the oil produced from CP. Meanwhile, the bio-oil derived from CP contained a significant amount of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Although the yield of biogas produced via MP was slightly lower than CP, the total syngas produced from MP was significantly high for both EFB (78 vol.%) and RH (70 vol.%). For CP, only 62 vol.% and 68 vol.% of syngas was produced using EFB and RH, respectively. The findings highlight the potential of MP technology to synthesize environmentally-friendly bio-oil and biogas with a high percentage of syngas. Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers

Process evaluation and techno-economic analysis of biodiesel production from marine macroalgae Codium tomentosum
In the current study, a seaweed Codium tomentosum was used as a source for the production of biodiesel. The maximum oil from marine macroalgae was recovered using ultrasound-assisted pretreatment. The oil yield was found to be maximum at optimal conditions such as 5% biomass wetness, 0.18 mm biomass size, 6:1 extraction solvent: biomass ratio, extraction temperature, and time as 55 °C and 140 min respectively. The extracted oil was transesterified using solidsolid nanocatalyst produced from waste clay doped with Zn. The maximum biodiesel conversion was found to be 90.5% at optimum conditions. The marine macroalgae C. tomentosum was found to be one of the potential sources for biodiesel production. The techno-economic analysis of the overall biodiesel production (20 MT/batch) process was investigated. The plant payback period is 8.59 years with a positive NPV of 1381 M$/yr. 

Biofuel production from supercritical water gasification of sustainable biomass
A review of biofuel production from supercritical water gasification (SCWG) of sustainable biomass has been performed, mainly organic waste, following a critical thinking in this field of knowledge. Thus, sub- and super- critical water properties and hydrothermal processing are briefly commented on. Then, the feedstocks usable in SCWG are fully reviewed and a brief description of the studies on the kinetics and mechanisms of reactions is carried out. Next, thermodynamic and process simulation are discussed, aimed at producing liquid and gas biofuels. After that, a brief comment on the viability of SCWG processes to produce biofuels is provided based on techno-economic and lifecycle assessments. Finally, some remarks on where we are and where we should go are given in order to advance this technology towards its maturity. This review explains some misleading concepts applied to SCWG processes, provides a brief but comprehensive overview of the technology focused on producing biofuels in a sustainable way, allows a better understanding of the SCWG of biomass for biofuel production, and proposes a series of improvements to be made and examined in the future research. The Author

Chemical-switching strategy for the production of green biofuel on NiCo/MCM-41 catalysts by tuning atmosphere
NiCo bimetallic catalyst was one of potential candidates used toward the hydrodeoxygenation of vegetable oils. However, there is still lack for digging out the relationship between micro-structure pretreated by various atmosphere and its catalytic performance. To hunting the relationship, NiCo/MCM-41 precursor was synthesized via the conventional co-impregnation method, and further pretreated by different atmospheres, including NH3, CH4/H2 and H2 in order to tune the particle size, active component dispersion, and acid properties of the catalysts. NiCo/MCM-41-H pretreated by H2 exhibits superior catalytic performance (65.8 wt% biofuel yield and 98.2% C12-C18 alkanes selectivity) on converting jatropha oil than that by NH3 and by CH4/H2. For comparison, the NiCo/MCM-41-H shows the smallest NiCo alloy grains, the smallest amount of strong acid, the lowest Brønsted acid/Lewis acid ratio, and the most uniform dispersion of Ni and Co. All the distinct surface properties of NiCo/MCM-41-H reasonably account for high efficiency in hydrodeoxygenation of jatropha oil. The work reveals the relationship between NiCo bimetallic catalyst structure and its hydrodeoxygenation performance, and provides a robust pretreatment method for tuning the surface properties to improve its catalytic performance for converting biomass oils into green biofuel. 

Zirconium-doped enhanced the biomass hydrodeoxygenation over extremely low-loaded Pd catalysts
Catalytic hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is regarded as a promising technology for the efficient conversion of biomass to renewable biofuel and chemicals, while it still remains the challenge in rational construction of cost-effective catalysts. Herein, we investigated the effect of oxyphilic metals (Zr/La/Mo) doping on the structure and performance of the extremely low-loaded Pd-based catalysts. The surface morphology, acidity and electronic character of Pd-M/BC catalysts could be regulated due to the electrophilic effect between oxyphilic metals and Pd. Compared with other catalysts, Pd0.25%-Zr1.0%/BC catalyst with 0.25% Pd loading showed excellent activity with &gt; 91.5% yield of 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) for the vanillin HDO at 65℃ for 2 h. Zr-doping improves the acidity and generates rich oxygen vacancies on the extremely low-loaded Pd-based catalysts, which facilitates the fracture of C-O bond in biomass derivatives. 

Strategies for fuel property enhancement for second-generation multi-feedstock biodiesel
Fatty acids from non-edible bioresources are highly sought after as biofuel feedstock and the use of multi-stream feedstock for biodiesel production is of interest. This study explores the potential of using blended feedstock consisting of inedible jatropha oil (JO) and waste cooking oil (WO) for biodiesel production. Prior to blending, the unfavourable high acid value of jatropha oil was esterified under the most optimal conditions of 60 °C, 1% H2SO4 catalyst and alcohol to oil molar ratio of 11:1 to maximise the esterified yield (81.1 %). Based on the acid value measurement, the optimum volumetric blend of WO/EJO was determined to be 90/10 with the lowest acid value of 1.9 mg KOH g−1, which was then utilised as feedstock for base-catalysed transesterification. The KOH catalysed transesterification was optimised at 60 °C, 1 wt% KOH catalyst and alcohol to oil molar ratio of 6:1 to produce biodiesel with low acid value (0.2 mg KOH g−1), high calorific value (38.4 MJ kg−1), high oxidation stability (∼11 h) and favourable viscosity (4.7 mm2 s−1). The results show that the produced biodiesel has acceptable physicochemical properties but its properties can further be improved by blending with petroleum diesel and antioxidant. Among those produced blend derivatives, petroleum diesel and biodiesel blend (80:20) or B20 showed the best improvement with high calorific value (46.6 MJ/kg), high oxidation stability (∼37 h) and low acid value (0.3 mg KOH g−1). Based on the study, in situ feedstock blending of WO/EJO can improve the physicochemical properties of the produced biodiesel and reduce the dependency on single feedstock. Biodiesel blending with commercial diesel can enhance the biodiesel fuel properties and such derivatives can be directly applied in an existing engine. 

Implication of scanning electron microscopy as a tool for identification of novel, nonedible oil seeds for biodiesel production
Biodiesel is a promising, bio-based, renewable, nontoxic, environment friendly, and alternative fuel for petroleum derived fuels which helps to reduce dependency on conventional fossil fuels. In this study, six novel, nonedible seed oil producing feedstock were explored for their potential for sustainable production of biodiesel. It is very important to correctly identify oil yielding plant species. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used as reliable tool for authentic identification of oil yielding seeds. Macromorphological characters of seeds were studied with light microscopy (LM). Outcomes of LM of seeds exposed distinctive variation in seed size from 16.3 to 3.2 mm in length and 12.4 to 0.9 mm in width, shape varied from oval to triangular, and color from black to light brown. Oil content of nonedible seed ranged from 25 to 30% (w/w). Free fatty acid content of seed oil varied from 0.32 to 2.5 mg KOH/g. Moreover, ultra structural study of seeds via SEM showed variation in surface sculpturing, cell arrangement, cell shape, periclinal wall shape, margins, protuberances, and anticlinal wall shape. Surface sculpturing varied from rugged, reticulate, varrucose, papillate, and striate. Periclinal wall arrangements confirmed variation from rough, wavy, raised, depressed, smooth, and elevated whereas, anticlinal walls pattern showed variation from profuse undulating, smooth, raised, grooved, deep, curved, and depressed. It was concluded that SEM could be a latent and advanced technique in unveiling hidden micromorphological characters of nonedible oil yielding seeds which delivers valuable information to researchers and indigenous people for precise and authentic identification and recognition. Wiley Periodicals LLC.

Application of nanomaterials for enhanced production of biodiesel, biooil, biogas, bioethanol, and biohydrogen via lignocellulosic biomass transformation
Due to climate change and environmental damage, sustainability has gained momentum. Environmental concerns, such as the greenhouse gas (GHG) effect caused by a wide variety of reasons, including the excessive use of fossil fuels, have forced the hunt for green energy and biofuel possibilities. Humanity is looking for cleaner fuels to satisfy energy requirements and preserve the world for future generations. Biofuels must be produced in huge quantities, although efficient alternatives do not meet with the current technologies. Catalyst nanoparticles can make the existing technologies more selective, productive, and can improve quality. Biofuel's feedstock is available and can significantly cut fossil fuel usage with improved processing. In this perspective, we focused on production of biofuels using various feedstocks, such as pyrolysis, directed mixing, micro-emulsion, transesterification (biodiesel manufacturing techniques), and hydrolysis, acidic genesis, acetogenesis, methanogenesis (biogas fabrication techniques), and pyrolysis. Nevertheless, the production of biofuels poses certain notable hurdles. Raw material costs and the option for the use of convenient innovation for effective biofuel production are talked about repeatedly, as is the accessibility of commercially attractive nanoparticles and the organic comprehension of the nanomaterial and protein system, and the suitability of enzymes and nanomaterials to microorganisms. Therefore, nanoparticle-based biofuel production has huge inherent potential, and a lot more study needs to be done to address the technological restrictions of liquid biofuels production.

Liquid wastes as a renewable feedstock for yeast biodiesel production: Opportunities and challenges
Microbial lipids (bacterial, yeast, or algal) production and its utilization as a feedstock for biodiesel production in a sustainable and economical way along with waste degradation is a promising technology. Oleaginous yeasts have demonstrated multiple advantages over algae and bacteria such as high lipid yields, lipid similarity to vegetable oil, and requirement of lesser area for cultivation. Oleaginous yeasts grown on lignocellulosic solid waste as renewable feedstocks have been widely reported and reviewed. Recently, industrial effluents and other liquid wastes have been evaluated as feedstocks for biodiesel production from oleaginous yeasts. The idea of the utilization of wastewater for the growth of oleaginous yeasts for simultaneous wastewater treatment and lipid production is gaining attention among researchers. However, the detailed knowledge on the economic aspects of different process involved during the conversion of oleaginous yeast into lipids hinders its large-scale application. Therefore, this review aims to provide an overview of yeast-derived biodiesel production by utilizing industrial effluents and other liquid wastes as feedstocks. Various technologies for biomass harvesting, lipid extraction and the economic aspects specifically focused on yeast biodiesel production were also analyzed and reported in this review. The utilization of liquid wastes and the incorporation of cost-efficient harvesting and lipid extraction strategy would facilitate large-scale commercialization of biodiesel production from oleaginous yeasts in near future. Elsevier Inc.

Highly selective reduction of biomass-derived furfural by tailoring the microenvironment of Rh@BEA catalysts
Furfural is a renewable lignocellulose-derived platform molecule, which can be transformed into biofuels and value-added chemicals (e.g., furfuryl alcohol and 2-methylfuran over metal-supported catalysts). Despite a number of approaches proposed for designing hydrogenation catalysts, highly selective furfural hydrogenation towards furfuryl alcohol (FA) or 2-methylfuran (2-MF) is still challenging. Here, we report on selective transformation of furfural either to FA or 2-MF achieved over zeolite BEA-supported Rh catalysts by optimizing Si/Al ratio and charge-balancing cations of the support. Among studied H- and Na-exchanged aluminosilicate BEA zeolite supports (Si/Al = 12.5; 25; 68; 150), Rh@Na-BEA catalysts lacking Brønsted and strong Lewis acidity showed enhanced selectivity towards FA (75 – 94% depending on the Si/Al ratio) at 74 – 84% conversion of furfural. In turn, selective formation of 2-MF (98% selectivity at 87% conversion) was observed over Al-rich Rh@H-BEA catalyst (Si/Al=12.5) with the highest concentration of Brønsted acid sites. Weaker adsorption of FA on Na- vs. H-form of Rh@BEA-12.5 catalyst was verified by FTIR spectroscopy and is assumed a key factor governing selective hydrogenation of furfural to FA over Rh@Na-BEA catalysts. Elsevier B.V.

Recent advancement in deoxygenation of fatty acids via homogeneous catalysis for biofuel production
Fuel-like hydrocarbons (also known as biofuel) isolated from the deoxygenation of fatty acids present different advantages as compared with fossil fuels. In particular, the homogeneous and heterogeneous catalytic deoxygenation methods have been the center of attention during recent years. Although catalytic deoxygenation of fatty acids via heterogeneous catalysis has been widely investigated, there is a high demand to review the progress in using the homogeneous catalysis pathways. Among the various homogeneous pathways, radical-based reactions and transition metal catalysis demonstrate the most promising results in the decarboxylation and decarbonylation processes. It is shown that radical-based reactions are more active in decarboxylation meanwhile the transition metal catalysts are rather selective to decarbonylation of fatty acids. Besides, the reaction conditions and type of catalysts are capable of enhancing biofuel production. Homogenous catalysis provides the huge potential for commercializing viability of biofuel via deoxygenation of fatty acids. Elsevier B.V.

Techno-Economic Assessment of Conceptual Design for Gamma-Valerolactone Production over a Bifunctional Zr-Al-Beta Catalyst
Gamma-valerolactone (GVL) is a promising precursor for the preparation of biofuels and fuel-range hydrocarbons. This work shows the conceptual design of a process for the production of GVL from levulinic acid by means of catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) over a bifunctional Zr-Al-Beta catalyst using an excess of isopropyl alcohol (IPA) acting as the hydrogen donor and solvent. The process is advantageously conducted in the liquid phase under moderate conditions, avoiding the use of high-pressure hydrogen. A techno-economic analysis of the process is presented, considering a production scale of 368.9 kg/h of GVL (ca. 85.5% GVL mass yield from levulinic acid). Such an analysis considers two main process sections, namely, (i) the reaction unit and (ii) the downstream purification section designed to achieve 99 wt % GVL purity together with 95% recovery of unreacted IPA. The analysis provides an investment of 6.4 MM€ with 7.5 MM€ annual operational costs (74% corresponding to reactants). The Minimum Selling Price for GVL is estimated to be 3076 €/ton. Finally, cost sensitivity analyses revealed the high IPA purchasing price and losses in side reactions (autoetherification) as the main obstacles to obtain a GVL competitive market price through this approach. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

Effects of temperature and time on supercritical methanol Co-Liquefaction of rice straw and linear low-density polyethylene wastes
Biofuels are particularly attractive and play an increasingly important role in sustainable energy. However, biofuels originating from lignocellulosic biomass (LCB) are extremely challenging because of their low carbon content, low stability, and high oxygen content. This work evaluates the supercritical methanol (scMeOH) co-liquefaction of rice straw and linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE) at temperature range of 240–340 °C for 0–2 h, to obtain hydrocarbons (HCs)-rich oil and carbon-rich solid product. Results show that reaction temperature dominated the yield and properties of products, but not the holding time. Among parameters tested, 30.07 wt% oil yield with 75.79% HCs content and 33.05 wt% oil yield with 70.91% HCs content were obtained at 300 °C for 1 h and 1.5 h, respectively. Simultaneously, the remaining solid products were still as high as 53.85 wt% with a carbon content of 79.59% and 48.28 wt% with carbon content of 81.34% under 300 °C for 1 h and 1.5 h, respectively. Ultimate analysis, FT-IR, TGA, and SEM show that solid products could be used as sustainable carbon resources, and solid fuel rather than soil amendment because of risk of micro plastic or adsorbent due to smooth surface without pores. 

Advanced integrated nanocatalytic routes for converting biomass to biofuels: A comprehensive review
In the latest decade, the energy requirements have raised, the fact that directly influenced the increase in fossil fuel consumption. Taking into account the pollution problems associated with fossil fuels, biomass resources come as a promising alternative energy source. The biomass to biofuel conversion can be achieved through strategies such as thermochemical (gasification and direct liquefaction) or biological processes. Moreover, catalytic approaches are increasingly used for biofuel production. In this context, the role of nanocatalysts becomes crucial when considering product quality and optimal operating conditions. Novel nanocatalysts with advanced properties can reduce the most common problems encountered in heterogeneous catalysts: unproductiveness, resistance to mass transfer, time-intensive, rapid deactivation. Consequently, the development of new types of nanocatalysts registered a rising trend. This work focuses on biofuels and tackles a series of aspects such as classification, production technologies, and strategies for yield increase in the context nanocatalysts use. Finally, the future outlooks and challenges of biomass conversion processes to biofuels using nanocatalysts were examined. 

Recent development patterns, utilization and prospective of biofuel production: Emerging nanotechnological intervention for environmental sustainability – A review
The word biofuel is here referred to as liquid or gas fuel mainly derived from biomass for the transport sector. There are many reasons why biofuels are viewed by both developed and industrialized countries as important technologies. These include reasons related to energy supply, climate, foreign exchange savings, and rural socio-economic issues. The term modern biomass is generally used to describe the traditional use of biomass through effective and clean fuel technologies and a long-term provision of biomass resources as well as environmental and competitive fuel, heating, and power using state-of-the-art conversion technologies. For electricity and heat generation, modern biomass can be used. The most recent biomass-backed transportation fuel is bioethanol and biodiesel as well as diesel generated by synthesis from biomass Fischer–Tropsch. The petroleum additive/substitute is bioethanol. Wood, paint, and even household waste can be processed into bio-ethanol economically. The organic ethanol comes from alcoholic fermentation by hydrolysis process of the saccharides or simple sugars provided by biomass. Starch, sugar or oil-generating crops are currently the basis for the production of transport fuel. The use of vegetable oils for the production of biodiesel has been renewed because of less pollutant and sustainable nature than traditional petroleum diesel. The role of catalysts in biofuel production is highly praised as the rate of conversion and reusability are the major concerns of production economics. Biodiesel is a petroleum-based diesel renewable alternative. Bio-oil production is enabled by biomass energy conversion facilities. In the biomass thermal conversion processes, pyrolysis is the most critical method. A brief overview of the basic concepts involved in biomass fuel thermochemical conversion is reviewed with a major focus on the use of nanotechnologies for biofuel production. High potential heterogeneous nanocatalysts (zinc oxide, silver oxide, doped nanoparticles, alloy nanoparticles, titanium dioxide, magnesium dioxide, iron oxide, and others), as well as their synthesis and characterization have been considered with much emphasis on green production strategies. The share of biomass in the renewable energy sector is around 62%. The key benefit of using biomass energy is reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 

Bio-based algal (Chlorella vulgaris) refinery on de-oiled algae biomass cake: A study on biopolymer and biodiesel production
In this study, a novel bio-refinery concept was designed for efficient utilization of de-oiled algae cake as bio-resource for biopolymer (Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHB)) production and thereby making the biorefinery process more economical and sustainable by completely utilizing the algal biomass without the production of waste algal residues. Algal oil was extracted from Chlorella vulgaris biomass via Bligh and Dyer method for biodiesel production through parabolic solar trough collector. Maximum lipid yield was 27.5 wt% at a temperature of 45 °C with de-oiled cake (DC) yield of 0.37 g. Maximum algal oil conversion efficiency was 89% and 94% for 0.3 wt% of clam shell waste and commercial calcium oxide catalyst at 90 min. After a reaction time of 120 h, the glucose, soluble sugars, xylose, and arabinose in the DC was reduced by 53%, 21%, 63%, and 69% respectively. The maximum PHB yield was 0.41 g PHB/g DC. This study provides additional support for the algal refineries on sustainability and circular usage of algae biomass for production of multiple products. Elsevier B.V.

Sustainable metal-lignosulfonate catalyst for efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation of levulinic acid to γ-valerolactone
Production of γ-valerolactone (GVL) from biomass-derived platform levulinic acid (LA) via catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) over renewable lignosulfonate-derived catalyst is reported herein. Lignosulfonate-derived catalysts were prepared by assembled Zr-metals with sodium lignosulfonate (LigS) derived from the industry paper waste. The resulting Zr-LigS catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic performance in 92.5% GVL yield under mild conditions. With the combination of detail catalyst characterizations, catalytic performance of the Zr-LigS catalyst, in-situ ATR-FTIR and poisoning experiments, the hydrothermal treatment of Zr4+ and LigS resulted in the formation of basic sites, which contributed significantly to the CTH reaction. Kinetic experiments demonstrated that the activation energy was as low as 41.9 kJ/mol. Furthermore, isotopic labeling experiments suggested that the β-H in isopropanol is transferred to the C[dbnd]O bond of LA by the formation of six-membered intermediates on the basic sites, which is the rate-determining step.

Boosting the Ni-Catalyzed Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of Anisole Using Scrap Catalytic Converters
The large availability and renewable nature of lignin makes its upgrading to bioproducts of particular interest for sustainable development. The hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of anisole specifically represents a model reaction for the conversion of lignin to biofuels through the removal of the aromatic carbon-oxygen bonds. To date, a range of Ni-based catalysts have been reported as highly active systems for the HDO of anisole. However, there has been a substantial lack of consideration given to the environmental characteristics of these catalytic systems, in contrast with the scope of the sustainable production of biofuels. Herein, Ni-based SiO2 catalysts are prepared by a solventless and highly efficient mechanochemistry approach, having a considerably lower environmental impact as compared to standard impregnation methods. Importantly, scrap catalytic converters (SCATs) are employed as co-catalysts, proving the possibility of enhancing the catalytic HDO of anisole, with a scarcely exploited waste material. The results demonstrate that the combined use of Ni/SiO2 as catalysts and Ni/SCATs as co-catalysts remarkably boosts the rate of the conversion of anisole up to more than 50% by achieving an almost complete conversion of anisole in only 40 min instead of at 200 °C and 4 MPa H2. The Authors. Advanced Sustainable Systems published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

Magnetic reusable acid-base bifunctional Co doped Fe2O3–CaO nanocatalysts for biodiesel production from soybean oil and waste frying oil
Biodiesel is a promising renewable liquid fuel, but the poor reusability and low FFA resistance of the transesterification catalyst is hindering its development. In this work, acid-base bi-functional Co doped Fe2O3–CaO nanocatalysts were prepared by one-pot hydrothermal followed by calcination method for biodiesel production from soybean oil and waste frying oil (WFO). The catalyst was characterized by XRD, XPS, TPD technologies and so on. The results showed that the doping of Co into the Fe2O3 lattice makes α-Fe2O3 crystal transform into γ-Fe2O3 thus the catalyst has stronger magnetic strength for magnetic separation. And the catalyst preparation conditions and reaction parameters were optimized, the results showed that under the 16:1 methanol to oil molar ratio, 3 wt% catalyst dosage, and 70 °C for 150 min, the enhanced catalytic activity and improved FFA resistance with the 98.2% and 91.5% biodiesel yield from soybean oil and WFO can be obtained, respectively. In addition, stability and reusability of the catalysts were improved and no distinct activity drop after 5 consecutive transesterification recycles. Furthermore, the functional group and composition of biodiesel were analyzed using GC-MS, ATR-FTIR and NMR techniques. And combustion dynamic characteristics were analyzed by TG, and the results demonstrate that the produced biodiesel has good combustion ability and potential application in industrial production. 

Fuel properties of low-erucic acid pennycress (LEAP) oil biodiesel
Biodiesel is a renewable biobased fuel obtained from transesterification of plant seed oil with methanol. This fuel has physical properties that make it attractive as an alternative fuel for compression-ignition (diesel) engines. In the United States (US), there is a need to increase the production of sustainable and environmentally friendly biofuels, including biodiesel, to supplement fossil fuels. To meet these challenges, emphasis is being placed on expanding the use of low-cost non-food oils as feedstocks for biodiesel. Low-erucic acid pennycress (LEAP) was developed from field pennycress as a cover crop for use in the Upper Midwestern US. The objective of the present study was to convert LEAP oil to biodiesel (fatty acid methyl esters [FAME]) and evaluate its fuel properties. The same process was applied to FAME made from natural field pennycress (FPC) oil as a baseline for comparison of results. The LEAP oil-FAME (LEAP-ME) had a kinematic viscosity at 40 °C (KV40) that was lower than that of FPC oil-FAME (FPC-ME), and nearly equivalent to the KV40 of soybean oil-FAME (SME). The total saturated-FAME (SFAME) concentration of LEAP-ME (5.40 mass%) was greater than that of FPC-ME. Since SFAME have high melting points, this caused LEAP-ME to have a higher cloud point (CP) than FPC-ME. However, the CP of LEAP-ME (−6.8 °C) was lower than those of canola oil-FAME (CaME; −2.5 °C) and SME (−2.8 °C). The oxidative induction period at 110 °C (IP110) of LEAP-ME was poor (0.83 h), indicating that it would need to be treated with antioxidants before distribution as an alternative diesel fuel.

Vibration, acoustic and emission characteristics of the chlorella vulgaris microalgae oil in compression ignition engine to mitigate environmental pollution
The petroleum fuel demand with high price and its exhaustion imposes a pressure to find an alternative. The fossil fuel shortage has been deteriorating over the past few years, because of the rapid increase in population. Many attempts have been made to increase the quality of biofuel with additives. In this paper, two types of nanoparticles such as carbon nanotubes (CNT) and alumina (Al2O3) in chlorella microalgae biofuel were analyzed by experimental method. The added CNT and alumina act as a catalyst that induces complete combustion with retarded emissions. In addition to above, the noise and vibration qualities are also measured. A series of test conducted using single cylinders, four stroke, naturally aspirated compression ignition diesel engine was run by using pure diesel and also different fuel blends ‘such as B10CNT50A50 Chlorella (Microalgae Biodiesel 10% + Diesel 90% + CNT 50 ppm), B20CNT50A50 (Microalgae Biodiesel 20% + Diesel 80% + CNT 50 ppm + Al2O3 50 ppm) and B30CNT50A50 (Microalgae Biodiesel 30% + Diesel 70% + CNT 50 ppm + Al2O3 50 ppm). At a constant load condition, all experimental tests were conducted at four different speeds such as 1500 rpm, 2000 rpm, 2500 rpm and 3000 rpm. The reference fuel of diesel B0 results was compared with blended fuel. From the results, it has been found that the nano additives of CNT and alumina reduced the greenhouse gas emissions of CO compared to plain diesel. Only considering the blended fuel, as the percentage of biofuel increases, the emission of nitric oxide and carbon dioxide is decreased with significant reduction in the amount of noise and vibration and also the combustion and performance qualities were also improved. The highest benefit in terms of all factors was achieved in the fuel blend of B30A50CNT50 amongst the other blends. 

Catalytic filters for metal oxide gas sensors
Chemical sensors based on metal oxides (MOx) are most promising for emerging applications including medical breath analysis, distributed environmental monitoring and rapid food quality assessment. Yet, such sensors are not established in daily practice, mainly due to their limited selectivity, sensitivity and stability. Catalytic filters offer an effective solution to improve these by converting interferants to inactive species and/or target analytes to more responsive ones. This has been exploited successfully for alkane sensors, enabling their commercial utilization. Here, catalytic filters are discussed as promising tool to optimize the performance of chemoresistive MOx sensors. First, we provide an overview of chemical and physical parameters that govern the catalytic reactivity of such filters and we compare their implementation as overlayers and packed beds. Thereby, recent advances in the nanoscale design of suitable materials to finely tune their catalytic properties are elaborated. Next, filter solutions for analytes of various chemical families (including alkanes, alkenes, inorganics, alcohols, ketones and aromatics) are discussed and quantitatively compared also to other state-of-the-art detectors. Emphasis is placed on present challenging scenarios, for instance, the distinction of analytes from significantly higher concentrated interferants (e.g., breath markers in the presence of background ethanol in hospitals) or chemically similar compounds (e.g., benzene from xylene and toluene in air quality assessment). This is followed by examples demonstrating the integration of such filter-sensor concepts into devices and their evaluation under real conditions. Finally, opportunities and research frontiers are highlighted to inspire future research. The Authors

Comparative study of different catalysts mediated FAME conversion from macroalga Padina tetrastromatica biomass and hydrothermal liquefaction facilitated bio-oil production
Marine macroalgae offer an endurable source of renewable biomass, which do not require cultivable area, fertilizers for cultivation for bioproducts production. In this study, marine brown macroalga Padina tetrastromatica as an alternate sustainable feedstock for the production of liquid fuels. Padina tetrastromatica biomass was collected from Mandapam; the coastal region of Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu, India. and the algal oil was extracted using sequential extractions using various solvents. Petroleum ether (PE) and dichloromethane (DCM) solvent fractions were found to have high lipids and further utilized for biodiesel production, wherein four different heterogeneous nanocatalysts (TiO2, Bio-Fe, GO, and MgO) and commercial homogeneous catalysts (HCl and NaOH) were employed for the transesterification. High fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) recovery (92.3%) was achieved from TiO2 mediated transesterification than the other conventional catalysts. Further, the conversion of algal biomass into bio-oil and by-products was carried out using hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL). Subsequently, the compounds were characterized by FT-IR and GC-MS analysis. The quality parameters of liquid biofuels were examined and they are in accordance with the international fuel standards. Thus, brown macroalga Padina tetrastromatica may be considered as an alternate feedstock for biofuel and other bioproducts production and TiO2 would be a suitable catalyst for the conversion of FAME. 

Microwave-assisted pyrolysis for carbon catalyst, nanomaterials and biofuel production
The current scenario of environment urgently needs alternative biologically synthesized fuels, value-added products, and preparation of catalyst to create a pollution free environment. Usually, several methods are available for the synthesis of various commodities from many biological resources. Microwave-assisted pyrolysis (MAP) is a relatively new process and has emerged as a promising technique to transform biomass feedstock into biofuels, including bio-oil, syngas and biochar. This paper provides a state-of-art review on MAP of several wastes such as lignocellulosic biomass, waste oils, municipal solid waste and electronic waste, discussing on the biofuels produced (bio-oil, syngas and biochar) as well as the synthesis of carbon nanomaterials (carbon nanotubes and carbon nanofibers). The use of microwave adsorbent and catalyst in MAP process are reviewed, including utilization of biochar as one of the microwave absorbers. Life cycle analysis and scale-up process with the global view of MAP are presented to contribute to the further advancement and commercialization of this technology. Although there are several challenges to be resolved, MAP has a high energy efficiency and is an increasingly feasible technique to be scalable, economical and environmental friendly. 

Comparison of cracking activity of the core-shell composite MCM-41/HY & MCM-48/HY catalysts in the synthesis of organic liquid fuel from Mahua oil
A synergistic catalyst was architectured using the hydrothermal crystallization method. Mesoporous material with pore diameter less than 20 nm was grown on the microporous Zeolite HY. The catalysts were characterized by XRD, ICP-OES, BET, TPD, SEM and TEM techniques. The SEM picture portrayed excellent core – shell morphology and TEM analysis corresponded to the XRD reports. Mahua oil was cracked in a pilot scale reactor over the synthesized catalysts at an optimized reaction condition (Temperature: 400 οC; WHSV: 4.6 h−1). The gaseous and liquid products of reaction were analyzed by Residual Gas analyzer and GCMS respectively. The NMR spectral analysis of fuel showed low traces of aromatics. The produced fuel was analyzed for its significant properties like calorific value, fire point, flash point and viscosity. Elsevier Inc.

Microwave assisted biodiesel production from chicken feather meal oil using Bio-Nano Calcium oxide derived from chicken egg shell
Environmental concerns have initiated the search for greener measures to mitigate pollution issues. Bio Nano CaO was synthesized by reducing CaO extracted from chicken egg shell using tea decoction. The synthesized material was characterized by physico-chemical techniques such as XRD, TGA, BET surface area analyser, TGA and SEM techniques. XRD studied confirmed the crystalline nature of material. The prepared material was found to be stable till 450 οC from TGA study. The SEM pictures displayed uniform and discrete particles which portrays the high probable sites that maximises the catalytic activity. The optimization of microwave assisted Biodiesel synthesis from chicken feather oil through Transesterification process using the bio-synthesized catalytic material was the main aim of the study. A 500 W microwave irradiation of Chicken feather meal oil using 8:1 Methanol:Oil input, 1% Bio Nano CaO concentration, 5 min of reaction time resulted in 95% conversion of chicken feather meal oil into chicken feather meal methyl esters. The Biodiesel was showed low viscosity (4.15 mm2/s), high heating value (50 MJ/kg), high flash point (153οC), reasonable pour point (12 οC) and good cetane number (50 min). The future works will be concentrated on the engine studies related to Torque, fuel consumption, emission data by using the synthesized Biodiesel. Elsevier Inc.

Scanning electron microscopy as a tool for authentication of biodiesel synthesis from Linum usitatissimum seed oil
Utilization of renewable and alternative energy feedstocks such as nonedible seeds oil to deal with the increasing energy crises and related ecological concerns have gained the attention of researchers. Biodiesel is an efficient and renewable substitute for diesel engine. This work investigates the potential of inexpensive nonedible seed oil of Linum usitatissimum to synthesize biodiesel using iron sulfate green nanocatalyst through the process of transesterification. Flax seed contains about 37.5% oil content estimated through Soxhlet apparatus. Light microscopy revealed that seed size varies from 3.0 to 6.0 cm in length, 2.0 to 3.3 cm in width, and 0.7 to 1.0 mm in diameter. Color of seed varied from yellow to brown. Characterization of biodiesel is performed through GC–MS and FTIR. Scanning electron microscopy was carried out to study the morphological features of seed coat. Catalyst was characterized by scanning electron microscopy, energy diffraction X-ray, and X-ray diffraction. The diffraction peaks of Fe3O4 green nanoparticles were found to be in 2θ values, 30.24°, 35.62°, 38.26°, 49.56°, 57.12°, and 62.78°. Fuel properties of biodiesel are also determined and compared with ASTM standards. Linum usitatissimum biodiesel has density 0.8722 (15°C kg/L), kinetic viscosity 5.45 (40°C cSt), flash point (90°C), pour point (−13°C), cloud point (−9°C), sulfur (0.0432% wt), and total acid number (0.245 mg KOH/g). It is concluded that L. usitatissimum seed oil is a highly potential source for biodiesel production to cope with the challenge of present energy demand. Wiley Periodicals LLC.

Thermal and environmental performance of CI engine using CeO2 nanoparticles as additive in water–diesel–biodiesel fuel blend
Abstract: The aim of this study was to find out the thermal and environmental performance of a four-stroke, single-cylinder, direct injection 10-kW CI engine at varying engine load conditions using different test fuels. The formulated fuels, viz. CeO2 nanoparticles-dispersed water–diesel–biodiesel fuel blend (CNWEDB) and water–diesel–biodiesel fuel blend (WEDB), were prepared using emulsification technique using CeO2 nanoparticles and water as additives in diesel–biodiesel blend (B20). The measured fuel properties of CNWEDB and WEDB satisfied the criteria of Indian Standard for biodiesel indicating their suitability for use in CI engine. The engine was run at various loads (0, 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100%) randomly to assess its thermal and environmental performance with all test fuels. Thermal performance of CI engine was evaluated by measuring the parameters such as brake thermal efficiency (BTE), brake-specific fuel consumption (bsfc), exhaust gas temperature (EGT) and heat balance for all test fuels. The environmental performance of engine was assessed by measuring CO, HC and NOx emissions for all test fuels. Adding water and CeO2 nanoparticles into B20 improved BTE of engine by 7.65% over diesel. Also, the minimum heat losses were observed at 80% engine load for CNWEDB indicating a better conversion of fuel energy to useful work. EGT and bsfc of engine reduced with CNWEDB over WEDB and B20 fuels. Engine fueling with CNWEDB emitted 12.82%, 14.46% and 14.20%; and 30.77%, 43.67% and 26.80% lesser concentration of CO, HC and NOx emissions over WEDB and diesel, respectively. Graphic abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Islamic Azad University (IAU).

Noble-Metal-Free WO3-Decorated Carbon Nanotubes with Strong W-C Bonds for Boosting an Electrocatalytic Glucose Oxidation Reaction
An electrocatalytic glucose oxidation reaction (GOR) is crucial for building a high-efficiency biofuel cell for a more sustainable society and constructing a sophisticated device to precisely detect trace amounts of glucose in blood and food for a more healthy life. Yet, the reported GOR catalysts suffer low activity (current induced by catalysts toward 1 mM glucose in a 1 cm-2electrode, μA mM-1cm-2), slow response, and poor response to trace glucose. Herein, we fabricate noble-metal-free WO3-decorated carbon nanotubes with strong W-C bonds (WO3/CNT60) (CNT, carbon nanotube). In the GOR, WO3/CNT60 triggers an activity as high as 1960 μA mM-1cm-2, a response time of only 3 s, and a response minimum of only 5 μM and exhibits outstanding stability, anti-interference ability to impurities, and reusability. The GOR performance of WO3/CNT60 is much better than the WO3/CNT catalyst without W-C bonds (1320 μA mM-1cm-2, 10 s, 40 μM) and the widely used noble-metal catalyst (270 μA mM-1cm-2, 10 s, 25 μM). The strong W-C bonds create more C-W-O-W bridge sites active for catalyzing the GOR, thus enhancing the GOR performance of WO3/CNT60. These results open a new way for fabricating a noble-metal-free high-efficiency biofuel cell and sophisticated device to precisely detect trace amounts of glucose and are also helpful for detecting and converting complex molecules like polyols and poly(carboxylic acid)s. American Chemical Society. All rights reserved.

Graphene oxide mediated enhanced cellulase production using pomegranate waste following co-cultured condition with improved pH and thermal stability
High production cost of cellulase enzyme is one of the major hurdles in economic biomass to biofuel production process at industrial scale. In this context, development of advanced approaches to produce low-cost commercial cellulase is highly demanding. Therefore, in the present study, simultaneous effect of pomegranate waste (PW) and graphene oxide (GO) has been studied to improve the cellulase production along with improved stability towards the incubation temperature and different pH environment. Crude cellulase production has been achieved at high substrate concentration of PW using co-culturing of strains Cladosporium cladosporioides NS2 and Rhizopus oryzae NS5 under the solid-state fermentation (SSF) while using GO as the nanocatalyst. At a substrate concentration of 7.0 g of PW, highest enzymatic activity of 42 IU/gds FP, 271 IU/gds EG and 422 IU/gds BGL have been achieved by mean of 1.5% GO after 72 h. In addition, crude enzyme exhibits 45–55 °C and 3.5–6.5 as the most favorable incubation temperature and pH range, respectively in presence of 1.5% GO. This study reports a potential strategy to improve the production of crude enzyme along with enhanced thermal and pH stability with the implementation of GO as a nanocatalyst. Thus, the present approach offers a sustainable way to produce crude enzyme that can have numerous industrial applications along with economic biomass to biofuels production technology by providing easy, as well as high yield of sugar production via enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic biomass. Nevertheless, recycling of GO when employed as catalyst during the entire process remains to be challenging, and therefore efforts should made to overcome this issue. 

Role of soluble nano-catalyst and blends for improved combustion performance and reduced greenhouse gas emissions in internal combustion engines
Biofuels were getting an enormous attention to be used as fuel for diesel engines. This paper examines the effect of addition of nanoparticles in biofuel on diesel engines. The biofuel used for conducting tests was canola oil. Corn oil was mixed with titanium dioxide (TiO2) at different proportions as 25 ppm, 50 ppm, 75 ppm and 100 ppm. These nanoparticles mixed with biofuel and diesel. The nanoparticles were dispersed with biodiesel at the concentration of B10T25 (10% cornoil + 90% diesel + TiO225), B10T50, B10T75, B10T100, B20T25, B20T50, B20T75, and B20T100 and plain biodiesel are B10 and B20. All tests were carried at different speeds 1800 rpm, 2000 rpm, 2200 rpm, 2400 rpm, 2600 rpm and 2800 rpm. Performance and emission characteristics were estimated for all fuel blends. Results were compared to each other to characterize the fuel blend quality. The addition of titania with biofuel increased the performance qualities such as brake thermal efficiency (BTE), exhaust gas temperature (EGT), Torque and Power. Further this combination reduced the Greenhouse gas emissions such as CO, CO2, and UHC. The specific fuel consumption (SFC) was also reduced and proved to be the better alternative to existing fossil fuel. However, the emission of NOx was increased. 

Engineering strategies and opportunities of next generation biofuel from microalgae: A perspective review on the potential bioenergy feedstock
The quest for alternate fuels that demonstrate reduced environmental impact is ever-increasing. This necessity has been a direct result of the environmental changes that are caused by the usage of fossil fuels. In this regard, sugar cane, corn and soybeans have been employed to make the first-generation biofuels. Second-generation biofuels, made from lignocellulosic crops and forest leftovers, require a lot of land that could have otherwise been utilized for food processing and productions. In this scenario, going by the technical forecasts, microalgae can potentially serve as the primary source for the third-generation of biofuels. By virtue of possessing no such limitations, microalgae are currently viewed as an effective alternative to first- and second-generation biofuels. The goal of this review is to highlight the most effective opportunities for biofuels production using algal sources. In doing so, this review also explains how the chemical compositions of micro and macroalgae, as well as the associated bioactive compounds, render positive influence on biofuel production. In addition to the present review critical discussions have been done on: (a) various growing strategies for rapid cultivation of micro and macroalgae for biomass development, (b) how algal-based ingredients and bioactive compounds are yet unexploited for bioenergy generation, and (c) why algal source and their biomass are regarded as possible bioenergy sources for future green and sustainable energy. 

Suppressing inhibitory compounds by nanomaterials for highly efficient biofuel production: A review
With the rapid increase in the global population, domestic and industrial energy consumption is rising at its peak, resulting in the incessant depletion of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas; thus, entailing the development of sustainable technologies based on renewable raw materials. Biofuels appear to be an ideal sustainable solution that could help meet future energy supply demands while also contributing to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. However, the most significant hurdle in the effective production and utilization of biofuels is the formation of inhibitory compounds such as aliphatic acids, phenolic substances, ketones, alcohols and furan derivatives during the pretreatment and conversion procedure, which results in lower cell density, prolonged microbial lag time and hinders the effective production of biofuels. To address these challenges, nanomaterials are primarily utilized in biofuels production, which enhances the performance of bioprocesses used during the biomass conversion to biofuel by efficiently suppressing the inhibitory compounds formed during the conversion procedure, thus resulting in enhanced biofuel yield. This review is intended to give a brief about the several recent advances made in the utilization of various kind of nanomaterials for suppressing the inhibitory compounds of biofuel production such as bioethanol, biohydrogen and biodiesel under specific conditions. Furthermore, the role of nano-immobilized biocatalysts in suppressing inhibitory compounds has been addressed, with an emphasis on the safety issues and limitations associated with the utilization of nanomaterials in the current approach. 

Catalyst-Based Synthesis of 2,5-Dimethylfuran from Carbohydrates as a Sustainable Biofuel Production Route
The development of renewable energy resources is strongly urged to recoup the shortage of fossil-based energy and its associated pollution issues. Energy production from carbohydrate materials has recently been of great interest due to the availability, reliability, and abundance of carbohydrate sources. Significantly, the catalytic transformation of waste carbohydrates into furan-based biofuels, specifically 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF), appears to be an attractive solution to the aforementioned energy and environmental issues. The potential of DMF as a renewable fuel is prospective, with its physicochemical properties that are similar to those of fossil fuels. Therefore, the current work focuses on the production of DMF, with the important aspects for enhanced DMF yield being summarized herein. Notably, the significant catalysts derived from zeolite, noble-metal, non-noble-metal, metal-organic framework, and electrocatalytic materials are discussed, alongside their effects in deriving carbohydrates to DMF. Furthermore, the mechanisms of DMF production were clarified too, followed by the scrutinization of the effects from reaction conditions, solvents, and hydrogen donors onto the DMF yield. Finally, the purification process, commercialization potential, and economic feasibility of DMF production were incorporated too, with insightful future directions being identified at the end of our review. This review is expected to advocate DMF production from carbohydrate materials, which could alleviate the energy and environmental problems encountered presently. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

Carbon Nanotube PtSn Nanoparticles for Enhanced Complete Biocatalytic Oxidation of Ethylene Glycol in Biofuel Cells
We report a hybrid catalytic system containing metallic PtSn nanoparticles deposited on multiwalled carbon nanotubes (Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs), prepared by the microwave-assisted method, coupled to the enzyme oxalate oxidase (OxOx) for complete ethylene glycol (EG) electrooxidation. Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs, without OxOx, showed good electrochemical activity toward EG oxidation and all the byproducts. Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs cleaved the glyoxilic acid C-C bond, producing CO2 and formic acid, which was further oxidized at the electrode. Concerning EG oxidation, the catalytic activity of the hybrid system (Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs+OxOx) was twice the catalytic activity of Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs. Long-term electrolysis revealed that Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs+OxOx was much more active for EG oxidation than Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs: the charge increased by 65%. The chromatographic results proved that Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs+OxOx collected all of the 10 electrons per molecule of the fuel and was able to catalyze EG oxidation to CO2 due to the associative oxidation between the metallic nanoparticles and the enzymatic pathway. Overall, Pt65Sn35/MWCNTs+OxOx proved to be a promising system to enhance the development of enzymatic biofuel cells for further application in the bioelectrochemistry field. American Chemical Society.

Hydrodeoxygenation of lignin and its model compounds to hydrocarbon fuels over a bifunctional Ga-doped HZSM-5 supported metal Ru catalyst
Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin to value-added biofuels and chemicals has a great significance for the advanced utilization of renewable lignocelluloses and the future biobased economy but is always a big challenge. Herein, a Ga-doped HZSM-5 supported metal Ru catalyst (bifunctional Ru/Ga-HZSM-5) exhibited the excellent HDO performance for converting diphenyl ether (DPE) to produce the only product, i.e., cyclohexane, under extremely mild conditions (180 °C, 1 MPa H2 and 2 h). The oxygen-containing group in DPE was mainly removed through the cleavage of the C-O ether bond, followed by metal- and acid-catalyzed comprehensive hydrogenation and deoxygenation. Further characterization results confirmed that the doping of Ga remarkably enhanced the interaction between the metal Ru and the support. For the depolymerization of real lignin, Ru/Ga-HZSM-5 could not only significantly improve the total liquid yield of lignin, but also convert the oxygen-containing species into the aliphatic hydrocarbons. Elsevier B.V.

SAPO-34 crystallized using novel pyridinium template as highly active catalyst for synthesis of ethyl levulinate biofuel
Silicoaluminophosphate Number 34 (SAPO-34) crystallized using novel N-heterocyclic organic template—1-propylpyridinium hydroxide ([PPy]OH)—as an excellent catalyst for the production of ethyl levulinate biofuel is reported. First, the time-dependent crystallization study of SAPO-34 using various spectroscopy, microscopy and analytical techniques is performed and it reveals that the precursor undergoes several important crystallization steps, namely dissolution of reactants (induction), nucleation and crystal growth of SAPO-34, before it transforms into a more metastable SAPO-36 crystalline phase. The resulting SAPO-34 solid (Si0.198Al0.475P0.327O2) exhibits high porosity (SBET = 673 m2/g, VTot = 0.27 cm3/g) and high Si content (Si/(Si + Al + P) = 0.198) which contribute to high surface acidity (2.52 mmol/g) as confirmed by the NH3-TPD analysis. The SAPO-34 catalyst shows 93.4% conversion to ethyl levulinate via esterification of levulinic acid with ethanol just within 20 min at 190 °C under non-microwave instant heating, which is considered very fast as compared to other systems. In addition, high catalyst recyclability is observed even after fifth cycle of reaction, thus offering another promising pathway for crystallizing zeolites using this new class of template that are beneficial for catalytic biofuel upgrading process.

Molybdenum and zirconium oxides supported on KIT-6 silica: A recyclable composite catalyst for one–pot biodiesel production from simulated low-quality oils
The development of feasible ecofriendly processes for biodiesel production is highly desirable to meet the requirement of green chemistry and sustainable development. To reach this goal, the molybdenum and zirconium oxides were incorporated into commercial available KIT-6, mesoporous silica nanoparticle, by a solvothermal method, to form MoO3/ZrO2/KIT-6 catalyst. The targeted solid composite catalysts were structurally characterized using XRD, TEM, SEM, XPS, EDS, TG, and nitrogen porosimetry measurement. The characterization results showed that the ordered porous structure of the support was well persevered with high surface area, and the molybdenum and zirconium oxides could be highly dispersed on the mesoporous support. The acidic nature of the solid catalyst was evaluated in detail by means of NH3-TPD and infrared spectra of adsorbed pyridine techniques. It was indicated that the acidities of the solid catalysts, with both Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, could greatly affected their catalytic activity. This catalyst displayed high activities to the transesterification of triglycerides and esterification of free fatty acids (FFAs) simultaneously owing to the synergistic effect of Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, thus achieving one-pot heterogeneous production of biodiesel as the low-quality oil was used as feedstocks. The influence of reaction parameters and the catalyst reusability were also investigated, and the best oil conversion of 92.7% was obtained under the optimized reaction conditions. The targeted catalyst exhibited a better FFAs and water tolerant for the reaction, advantageously with no noticeable decline in the catalytic performance even after five reaction cycles. 

Techno-economic analysis of food waste valorization for integrated production of polyhydroxyalkanoates and biofuels
This study focused on the techno-economic analysis of integrated polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) and biofuels such as biohydrogen, bioethanol, and 2,3-butanediol production from food waste (FW). Based on previous literature studies, the integrated process was developed. The process plan produced 2.01 MT of PHAs, 0.29 MT of biohydrogen, 4.79 MT of bioethanol, and 6.79 MT of 2,3-butanediol per day, from 50 MT of FW. The process plan has a positive net present value of 4.47 M$, a 13.68% return on investment, a payback period of 7.31 yr, and an internal rate of return of 11.95%. Sensitivity analysis was used to examine the economic feasibility. The actual minimum selling price (MSP) of PHAs was 4.83 $/kg, and the lowest achievable MSP with 30% solid loading is 2.41 $/kg. The solid loading in the hydrolysis stage and the price of byproducts have a major impact on the economic factors and MSP of PHAs. 

Utilization of nano-sized waste lime sludge particles in harvesting marine microalgae for biodiesel feedstock production
In this research, waste lime sludge (LS) nanoparticles procured from integrated pulp and paper mill were used as the flocculent material to harvest the marine microalgae Tetraselmis indica (T. indica). LS contains 80–85% of calcium carbonate in the form of calcite with rhombohedral and scalenohedral structures along with other minerals such as Mg, K, Fe, and Na. XRD results showed that lime sludge particles have an averaged crystallite size of ~ 39 nm. The biomass harvesting efficiency of T. indica was observed at different doses of flocculent (0–160 mg L−1), temperature (30, 35, 40, 45, and 50 °C) and mixing rate (100–300 rpm), respectively. Maximum biomass harvesting of 86% was observed at 50 °C with 140 mg L−1 flocculent dose, pH 7, and 150 rpm in 90 min. It was also observed that LS has no effect on biodiesel profile of T. indica. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images revealed agglomeration of microalgal cells and deposition of calcium carbonate on its surface upon treatment with LS at 50 ºC. Experimental data were found to be in good agreement with pseudo-second-order kinetics model. This study indicated that waste lime sludge is a potential material for high harvesting efficiency in low settling time and low-cost harvesting of microalgae and it makes the production of biodiesel cost-effective., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.

Musa acuminata peel: A bioresource for bio-oil and by-product utilization as a sustainable source of renewable green catalyst for biodiesel production
This study emphasizes the vision of a green, renewable and sustainable integrated route for the catalyst synthesis process and to transform fruit and kitchen wastes into fuel. The alkali and alkaline earth metal-rich biochar, a by-product obtained from banana peel thermochemical conversion (pyrolysis), was calcined and utilized as a catalyst for converting soybean waste cooking oil (SWCO) to biodiesel. The catalyst was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FESEM), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), and Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The synthesized catalyst showed a high catalytic activity due to the abundance of potassium in oxide and carbonate form. Under the optimized condition: Catalyst loading of 1.5 wt%, time of 2 h, the temperature of 60 °C, and at 9:1 methanol to oil ratio, the conversion of SWCO to biodiesel was 98.0% with BPBC (Banana peel pyrolyzed calcined biochar catalyst). The integrated catalyst synthesizing method helped to transform the fruit waste to biochar and bio-oil, which have the property of fuel and platform chemicals. Additionally, as the catalyst was synthesized from biomass, it is more eco-friendly, recyclable, and sustainable. 

Process optimization of ultrasonic-assisted biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using waste chicken eggshell-derived CaO as a green heterogeneous catalyst
In this study, waste chicken eggshell-derived CaO particles were synthesized as heterogeneous catalyst, and their structural and morphological properties were evaluated. CaO was used as a catalyst in ultrasonic-assisted biodiesel production from waste cooking oil (WCO). Response surface methodology (RSM) based on central composite design (CCD) was applied to investigate and optimize the influence of reaction parameters, such as catalyst loading (6–12 w/w%), methanol to oil ratio (6:1–12:1 m/m), ultrasonic power (150–300 W), and reaction time (20–40 min), on biodiesel yield and specific energy consumption (SEC). The results showed significant effects of the parameters on the biodiesel yield and SEC, except for the effects of molar ratio on SEC. Moreover, the optimal reaction conditions were a catalyst loading of 6.04 w/w%, methanol to oil molar ratio of 8.33 m/m, ultrasonic power of 299.66 W, and reaction time of 39.84 min, leading to a biodiesel yield of 98.62% and SEC of 5.01 kJ.g−1.

Evaluation and optimal design of a high stability hydrothermal deoxygenation process for production of green diesel fuel via deoxygenation of waste cooking oil
The environmental impacts of waste cooking oil (WCO) can be profoundly serious when it is not handled properly. Instead of discarding leftover cooking oil as waste, recent technological advancements have made it possible to use WCO as a sustainable feedstock for biofuels production, while also addressing the disposal issue. This work developed an efficient and high stability hydrothermal WCO transformation process into green diesel fuel. In the present work, a homemade environmentally benign activated carbon was prepared from a bio-sourced precursor and impregnated with a Pd precursor. A set of experiments were conducted at 300 °C–350 °C, 40 and 50 bar, and times up to 240 min to evaluate the performance of Pd/AC catalysts against deoxygenation (DO) and deactivation reactions. The results showed a substantial enhancement of the activity and stability of the coated Pd/AC catalyst versus the uncoated one. Also, the green diesel fuel possesses an outstanding higher heating value of 46 kJ/mol. Based on experiments, the best kinetic model for the DO process was developed. The optimum kinetic parameters were obtained by the optimization approach. For a wide variety of operating conditions, the projected product conversion demonstrated satisfactory agreement with the experimental results, with absolute average errors of less than 8%. The Institution of Chemical Engineers

Synergistic effect of hydrothermal co-liquefaction of Camellia oleifera Abel and Spirulina platensis: Parameters optimization and product characteristics
Camellia oleifera Abel (COA) is a kind of oil plant widely planted in China and East Asia. It has a large annual production and consumption, making it a promising feedstock for biofuel conversion. The hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of COA and the hydrothermal co-liquefaction (HTCL) of COA and Spirulina platensis (SP) were investigated. The bio-oil yield of COA HTL reached 21 wt% under 320 °C, 30 min. The main components in bio-oil from COA are light components, including fat acid, Phenol, which is different from SP and mixed feedstock, The HTCL process can improve bio-oil yield and quality of mixed feedstock, and the maximum yield reached 36 wt% (320 °C, 40 min, 2.0) even higher than pure SP HTL bio-oil yield of 28.76 wt% (320 °C, 30 min), bio-oil had more fatty acid content, lower heterocycles content and higher HHV. The synergistic effect (SE) of HTCL shows different changing trends with operating parameters, and the maximum SE is about 8%. Moreover, the energy recovery rate was increased in HTCL, indicating better conversion efficiency. 

Synthesis and catalytic properties of calcium oxide obtained from organic ash over a titanium nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from dairy scum
The fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) production from dairy effluent scum as a sustainable energy source using CaO obtained from organic ash over titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TNPs) as the transesterification nano-catalyst has been studied. The physical and chemical properties of the synthesized catalysts were characterized, and the effect of different experimental factors on the biodiesel yield was studied. It was revealed that the CaO–TiO2 nano-catalyst displayed bifunctional properties, has both basic and acid phases, and leads to various effects on the catalyst activity in the transesterification process. These bifunctional properties are critical for achieving simultaneous transesterification of dairy scum oil feedstock. According to the reaction results, the catalyst without and with a low ratio of TNPs showed a low catalytic activity. In contrast, the 3Ca–3Ti nano-catalyst had the highest catalytic activity and a strong potential for reusability, producing a maximum biodiesel yield of 97.2% for a 3 wt% catalyst, 1:20 oil to methanol molar ratio for the dairy scum, and a reaction temperature of 70 °C for a period of 120 min under a 300 kPa pressure. The physical properties of the produced biodiesel are within the EN14214 standards. 

Utilization of agricultural lignocellulosic wastes for biofuels and green diesel production
The ever-growing human population has resulted in the expansion of agricultural activity; evident by the deforestation of rainfoamrests as a means of acquiring fertile land for crops. The crops and fruits produced by such means should be utilized completely; however, there are still losses and under-exploitation of these produces which has resulted in wastes being mounted in landfills. These underutilized agricultural wastes including vegetables and fruits can serve as a potential source for biofuels and green diesel. This paper discusses the main routes (e.g., biological and thermochemical) for producing biofuels such as bioethanol, biodiesel, biogas, bio-oil and green diesel from underutilized crops by emphasizing recent technological innovations for improving biofuels and green diesel yields. The future prospects of a successful production of biofuels and green diesel by this source are also explained. Underutilized lignocelluloses including fruits and vegetables serve as a prospective biofuel and green diesel generation source for the future prosperity of the biofuel industry. 

Biodiesel synthesis from Prunus bokhariensis non-edible seed oil by using green silver oxide nanocatalyst
The present work investigates the proficiency of green silver oxide nanocatalyst synthesised from Monotheca buxifolia (Falc.) Dcne. leaves extract, and their application for biodiesel synthesis from novel Prunus bokhariensis seed oil (non-edible). The seed oil content of 55% and FFA content of 0.80 mg KOH/g were reported. Several analytical tools (EDX, FT-IR, SEM and XRD) were used to characterise the Ag2O nanocatalyst. Maximum (89%) FAME yield of the PBSOB (Prunus bokhariensis seed oil biodiesel) was achieved at ambient transesterification conditions i.e. 3.5 wt% nanocatalyst loading, 2.5 h reaction time, 130 °C of reaction temperature and 12:1 alcohol to oil ratio. The synthesised PBSOB was additionally characterised by analytical methods like, GC-MS and FT-IR. The different aspects of fuel were identified i.e. flash point (84 °C), kinematic viscosity (4.01 cSt @ 40 °C), sulphur content (0.0003 wt %), density (0.853 kg/L) and acid number (0.167 mg KOH/g). All the above properties were verified and agreed well with biodiesel international standards (European Union (14214), China GB/T (20828) and ASTM (6751, 951). In general, Prunus bokhariensis seed oil and Ag2O nanocatalyst seem to be remarkably active, cheap and stable candidates for the biodiesel industry in future. 

Transesterification of waste cooking oil using Clay/CaO as a solid base catalyst
This study was conducted to investigate the use of clay/CaO heterogeneous catalyst for the production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil. The catalyst was synthesized from clay and calcined using calcium oxide under controlled conditions. Clay is a natural soil material containing a large amount of amorphous silica. After processing calcium oxide and heating under controlled conditions at 800 °C, high surface area silica with amorphous structure was produced. The amorphous structure of the synthesized catalyst was confirmed by XRD analysis. The results of SEM analysis indicated that the particles had a spherical structure, distributed evenly and uniformly. The effect of five parameters of reaction temperature, catalyst concentration, oil to methanol volume ratio, toluene concentration, and reaction time on the purity of the biodiesel was evaluated through utilizing the response surface methodology (RSM). Under optimal conditions i.e. temperature of 54.97 °C, catalyst concentration of 9.6 wt%, oil to methanol volume ratio of 1.94 vol:vol, toluene concentration of 16.13 wt%, and reaction time of 74.32 min, the conversion rate was 97.16%. The results of catalyst recovery test showed that the prepared catalyst could be reused up to 5 times; thus, it can be used as a stable and cost-effective catalyst for the production of biodiesel. 

Selective hydroconversion of 2-methylfuran to pentanols on MWNT-supported Pt catalyst at ambient temperature
The selective hydrogenolysis of C–O bond in furfural and its derivatives provides a sustainable route for transforming biomass-derived feedstocks into valued chemicals. Currently, the development of efficient catalysts which can effectively cleavage C–O bond under mild conditions remains a critical challenge. The present work reports Pt catalysts supported on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNT) which are active in 2-methylfuran (2-MF) hydrogenolysis to form pentanols in liquid phase under mild conditions. The impact of various catalyst supports, active metals and reaction conditions in terms of metal loadings, solvent, time, pressure, etc., were explored. The 5 wt% Pt/MWNT catalyst demonstrated an excellent activity and selectivity with 100% 2-MF conversion and 53% pentanols (POLs) yield under 1 MPa H2 at an exceptional low temperature of 25 °C. The reaction mechanism was studied combing both the reactivity tests and characterization results, and it is found that the better catalytic performances of Pt/MWNT were correlated closely to the size of Pt nanoparticles and their interactions with the underlying MWNT support. Accordingly, a reaction pathway involving the adsorption of 2-MF parallel to the Pt nanoparticles and its subsequently selective C–O hydrogenolysis was proposed. This work showcases a promising catalyst for room-temperature biofuel production. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Youke Publishing Co.,Ltd.

Selective hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-dimethylfuran over cobalt nanoparticle inlaid cobalt phyllosilicate
Fabrication of biofuels and chemicals from renewable biomass is highly desirable to replace petrochemicals. Hydrogenolysis of biomass derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is a promising way to obtain furanic fuels. In this paper, we describe the preparation of a CoSi-PS catalyst derived from cobalt phyllosilicate using a silica sol as the silica source. CoSi-PS exhibited excellent catalytic performance for the hydrogenolysis reaction of HMF to produce liquid 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) biofuel. 100% conversion of HMF and 97.5% selectivity for DMF were achieved at 170 °C and 1.5 MPa H2 for 4 h, which was superior to most of the reported catalysts. The excellent performance can be attributed to the strong interactions between the metal and support, highly dispersed cobalt nanoparticles and the Lewis acid sites induced by the coordinated unsaturated Co(ii) sites in phyllosilicate. This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry

Kinetics of the in−situ hydrogenation of phenol with formic acid as a hydrogen source
Highly active phenolic compounds in biomass pyrolysis oil are an important factor for limiting the utilization of the biofuel. The catalytic hydrogenation of phenolic compounds is considered to be an effective method for reforming bio−oil. Pd/CB (carbon black), which was synthesized by using a facile impregnated method, is found to be an effective catalyst for the in-situ hydrogenation of phenol (a representative model compound of bio−oil) using FA as a hydrogen source to produce cyclohexanone. A 98.99% of the conversion of phenol and 90.20% of the selectivity of cyclohexanone were obtained under the optimized reaction conditions. The catalyst also showed excellent stability after three recycled process. The catalytic kinetics study of the in−situ hydrogenation of phenol was investigated using Power−Rate Law model and Langmuir−Hinshelwood model. The Langmuir−Hinshelwood model fit well to the experimental data and the apparent activation energies (Ea) was 50.96 kJ mol−1. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Integrating life cycle assessment and characterisation techniques: A case study of biodiesel production utilising waste Prunus Armeniaca seeds (PAS) and a novel catalyst
Prunus Armeniaca seed (PAS) oil was utilised as a waste biomass feedstock for biodiesel production via a novel catalytic system (SrO–La2O3) based on different stoichiometric ratios. The catalysts have been characterised and followed by a parametric analysis to optimise catalyst results. The catalyst with a stoichiometric ratio of Sr: La-8 (Sr–La–C) using parametric analysis showed an optimum yield of methyl esters is 97.28% at 65 °C, reaction time 75 min, catalyst loading 3 wt% and methanol to oil molar ratio of 9. The optimum catalyst was tested using various oil feedstocks such as waste cooking oil, sunflower oil, PAS oil, date seed oil and animal fat. The life cycle assessment was performed to evaluate the environmental impacts of biodiesel production utilising waste PAS, considering 1000 kg of biodiesel produced as 1 functional unit. The recorded results showed the cumulative abiotic depletion of fossil resources over the entire biodiesel production process as 22,920 MJ, global warming potential as 1150 kg CO2 equivalent, acidification potential as 4.89 kg SO2 equivalent and eutrophication potential as 0.2 kg PO43− equivalent for 1 tonne (1000 kg) of biodiesel produced. Furthermore, the energy ratio (measured as output energy divided by input energy) for the entire production process was 1.97. These results demonstrated that biodiesel obtained from the valorisation of waste PAS provides a suitable alternative to fossil fuels.

Hydrothermal liquefaction of granular bacteria to high-quality bio-oil using Ni–Ce catalysts supported on functionalized activated carbon
Hydrothermal liquefaction of granular bacteria, a surplus byproduct in wastewater treatment units, was performed with and without catalyst. Process operating conditions including temperature, feed concentration and reaction time were optimized through the central composite method in Design-Expert Software to reach maximum bio-oil yield and energy recovery. The data obtained were 38.5% and 61.0% of bio-oil yield and energy recovery respectively, in optimum conditions of 332 °C, 14.22 wt% feed concentration and the reaction time of 44 min. To improve the quantity and quality of bio-oil, catalytic hydrothermal tests were investigated using Ni and Ce impregnated on activated carbon and functionalized activated carbon by HNO3 and H2SO4. The results showed that the functionalization of activated carbon and adding Ce promoter to the catalyst had a significant effect on improving the Ni catalyst activity. The highest bio-oil yield and energy recovery of 48.1 and 86.84% were achieved by using Ni–Ce/ACHNO3 Catalyst. 

A novel way to facilely degrade organic pollutants with the tail-gas derived from PHP (phosphoric acid plus hydrogen peroxide) pretreatment of lignocellulose
The abundantly released tail-gas from lignocellulose pretreatment with phosphoric acid plus hydrogen peroxide (PHP) was found to accelerate the aging of latex/silicone textural accessories of the pretreatment device. Inspired by this, tail-gas was utilized to control organic pollutants. Methylene blue (MB), as a model pollutant, was rapidly decolorized by the tail-gas, and oxidative degradation was substantially proven by full-wavelength scanning with a UV–visible spectrometer. The tail-gas from six typical lignocellulosic feedstocks produced 68.0–98.3% MB degradation, suggesting its wide feedstock compatibility. Three other dyes, including rhodamine B, methyl orange and malachite green, obtained 97.5–99.5% degradation; moreover, tetracycline, resorcinol and hexachlorobenzene achieved 73.8–93.7% degradation, suggesting a superior pollutant compatibility. In a cytotoxicity assessment, the survival rate of the degraded MB was 103.5% compared with 80.4% for the untreated MB, implying almost no cytotoxicity after MB degradation. Mechanism investigations indicated that the self-exothermic reaction in PHP pretreatment drove the self-generated peroxy acids into tail-gas. Moreover, it heated the pollutant solution and thermally activated peroxy acids as free radicals for efficient pollutant degradation. Here, a brand-new technique for degrading organic pollutants with a “Win–Win–Win” concept was purposed for lignocellulose valorization, pollutant control by waste tail-gas, and biofuel production. Elsevier B.V.

Pyrolysis of waste oils for the production of biofuels: A critical review
The application of waste oils as pyrolysis feedstocks to produce high-grade biofuels is receiving extensive attention, which will diversify energy supplies and address environmental challenges caused by waste oils treatment and fossil fuel combustion. Waste oils are the optimal raw materials to produce biofuels due to their high hydrogen and volatile matter content. However, traditional disposal methods such as gasification, transesterification, hydrotreating, solvent extraction, and membrane technology are difficult to achieve satisfactory effects owing to shortcomings like enormous energy demand, long process time, high operational cost, and hazardous material pollution. The usage of clean and safe pyrolysis technology can break through the current predicament. The bio-oil produced by the conventional pyrolysis of waste oils has a high yield and HHV with great potential to replace fossil fuel, but contains a high acid value of about 120 mg KOH/g. Nevertheless, the application of CaO and NaOH can significantly decrease the acid value of bio-oil to close to zero. Additionally, the addition of coexisting bifunctional catalyst, SBA-15@MgO@Zn in particular, can simultaneously reduce the acid value and positively influence the yield and quality of bio-oil. Moreover, co-pyrolysis with plastic waste can effectively save energy and time, and improve bio-oil yield and quality. Consequently, this paper presents a critical and comprehensive review of the production of biofuels using conventional and advanced pyrolysis of waste oils. Elsevier B.V.

Catalytic properties/performance evolution during sono-hydrothermal design of nanocrystalline ceria over zinc oxide for biofuel production
The main objective of this study was to produce biodiesel from waste oil by bifunctional acid-base CeO2(x%)/ZnO nanocatalysts. CeO2 was loaded over mesoporous ZnO in different percentages (X = 5, 10, 20, 30 and 50) to reach the optimum acid-base balance, and remove the internal mass transfer resistance. Ultrasonication was adopted as an efficient approach to synthesize the nanocatalysts with modified features. XRD, FESEM, TEM, EDX, BET-BJH, FTIR TPR-H2, and TPD-NH3 characterization analyses were carried out to identify the as-fabricated nanocatalysts. Bi-metallic nanocatalysts were tested in one-pot biodiesel production from a high free fatty acid containing model of waste oil. In each cycle, the conversion of esterification and transesterification reactions, as well as the overall conversion were estimated, and the superior activity was achieved over sonoassisted designed CeO2 = 20% nanocatalyst (FFA conversion = 80%, TG conversion = 97% and total conversion = 93%). According to the results of analyses, this outcome is depended on the uniform dispersion of active components, high SBET, and pore volume, as well as the suitable acid site density and strength. The promotion effect of ultrasonic waves on CeO2 dispersion not only increased the activity of nanocatalysts but also yielded satisfactory stability. Sono-designed sample with CeO2 = 20% exhibited the most stable nanocatalyst that maintained its performance after five cycles. Moreover, CeO2 = 20% showed high performance without deactivation in the presence of NaCl which is one of the impurity elements in waste cooking oil. Elsevier B.V.

Advances in Upgrading Biomass to Biofuels and Oxygenated Fuel Additives Using Metal Oxide Catalysts
Increasing demand for transportation fuels, awareness of climate change, and dwindling supplies of crude oil has led to the rapid increase in production of biomass derived oxygenated fuel additives as viable drop-in fuels for potential blending with conventional fuels. The biorefinery processes for synthesis of oxygenated fuel additives using metal oxide catalysts in various forms have evolved significantly. Metal oxides exhibit diverse structures and physiochemical properties including acidity, basicity, and redox nature along with the lattice oxygen vacancies, which by careful design and modification can be tuned to optimize high catalytic activity and selectivity in several organic transformations. Metal oxide based catalysts can be designed for use in industries, as individual metal oxides or mixed metal oxides, decorated with noble and non-noble metal nanoparticles, porous metal oxides, and sulfonated metal oxides. In this review, we have attempted to consolidate the progress made with catalytic applications of metal oxides in the synthesis and production of oxygenated fuel additives through several important biorefinery processes. 

Synthesis of valerate biofuels on supported Co-based bifunctional catalysts [负载型Co基双功能催化剂上戊酸酯生物燃料的制备]
Four types of Co-supported catalysts, HZSM-5, HY, Hβ and MCM-22, were prepared by the impregnation method. In the high-pressure reactor, the prepared catalyst is used as a raw material for one-step hydrodeoxygenation of ethyl levulinate to synthesize ethyl valerate and valeric acid biofuel. X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Fourier infrared (FT-IR), NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, py-FTIR, ICP-AES and other technologies are used for catalyst characterization. The results show that, because Co is uniformly distributed on HZSM-5, B acidity, total acidity and reduction performance are the best, while maintaining high reactivity, it improves the selectivity of the product. Therefore, the 10Co/HZSM-5 catalyst has higher catalytic performance. The reaction temperature, reaction pressure, etc. are further optimized. When the reaction temperature is 240℃, the pressure is 3 MPa, and the reaction is 3 h, with n-octane as the solvent, the catalyst shows higher catalytic performance, and the conversion rate of ethyl levulinate reaches 100%, the total yield of valerate and valeric acid can reach 90%., Editorial Board of CIESC Journal. All right reserved.

Optimization of biodiesel production parameters from Prosopis julifera seed using definitive screening design
The concept of waste to valuable products is a hot topic with more explorations going on worldwide to minimize the environmental pollution and wastage of food-based feedstocks. In this work, biodiesel was produced from Prosopis julifera seed oil using ethanol as solvent and magnesium nanocatalyst and the process was optimized by employing an advanced statistical optimization method; definitive screening design. The maximum biodiesel yield from Prosopis julifera seed was found to be 32.5%. Acid esterification and transesterification were applied to minimize the acidity. Acidity of the P. julifera oil was initially reduced to 1.52 mg KOH/g using acid catalyst H2SO4, and then to 0.88mg KOH/g by transesterification process using magnesium oxide. Optimum biodiesel conversion efficiency of 94.83% was achieved under 10:1 ethanol-to-oil ratio, 5% magnesium oxide concentration, 80 min reaction time, 45 °C reaction temperature and 1000 rpm agitation rate. The transesterification reaction was found to be highly affected by the ethanol-to-oil ratio and catalyst concentration. The results showed that the catalytic activity of the magnesium oxide was sufficient for the production of biodiesel from P. julifera seed oil. The fuel properties were evaluated according to ASTM standards. FTIR analysis confirmed the existence of functional groups with respect to the fingerprint region of P. julifera ethyl esters. The Definitive screening design method can be suggested as an alternative method for the optimization of process parameters within limited materials and number of experiments. The findings suggest that this method of production of biodiesel from P. julifera seed oil shall open up new possibilities for a novel natural biofuel. The Authors

Biodiesel Production from Waste Oils: A South African Outlook
The viability of large-scale biodiesel production ultimately boils down to its cost of commercialisation despite other very important factors such as the negative environmental and health effects caused by the direct combustion of fossil diesel. How much each country’s economy will be influenced by the production of biodiesel will be determined by the commitment of various stakeholders to the much-needed transition from petroleum-based resources to renewable resources. Biodiesel production is largely determined by the cost of the feedstock (>70%) and this review focuses on the use of waste oil resources as biodiesel feedstock with a special focus on waste cooking oil (WCO). Generating value from waste oil provides an alternative waste management route as well as a positive environmental and economic contribution. The transesterification process for biodiesel production, its catalysis and some important technical and economic aspects are covered in this communication with a special focus on the South African framework. An overview of the current research and its implications going forward is discussed. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Facile Cellulase Immobilisation on Bioinspired Silica
Cellulases are enzymes with great potential for converting biomass to biofuels for sustainable energy. However, their commercial use is limited by their costs and low reusability. Therefore, the scientific and industrial sectors are focusing on finding better strategies to reuse enzymes and improve their performance. In this work, cellulase from Aspergillus niger was immobilised through in situ entrapment and adsorption on bio-inspired silica (BIS) supports. To the best of our knowledge, this green effect strategy has never been applied for cellulase into BIS. In situ entrapment was performed during support synthesis, applying a one-pot approach at mild conditions (room temperature, pH 7, and water solvent), while adsorption was performed after support formation. The loading efficiency was investigated on different immobilisation systems by Bradford assay and FTIR. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) was chosen as a control to optimize cellulase loading. The residual activity of cellulase was analysed by the dinitro salicylic acid (DNS) method. Activity of 90% was observed for the entrapped enzyme, while activity of ~55% was observed for the adsorbed enzyme. Moreover, the supported enzyme systems were recycled five times to evaluate their reuse potential. The thermal and pH stability tests suggested that both entrapment and adsorption strategies can increase enzyme activity. The results highlight that the entrapment in BIS is a potentially useful strategy to easily immobilise enzymes, while preserving their stability and recycle potential. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Valorization of red macroalgae biomass via hydrothermal liquefaction using homogeneous catalysts
Hydrothermal liquefaction of red macroalgae species, Kappaphycus alvarezii (KA) and Eucheuma denticulatum (ED), was performed at 350 °C in the presence of 5 wt% neutral and alkali catalysts like Na2CO3, K2CO3, CaCO3, Na2SO4, NaOH, and KOH. The maximum bio-crude yield of 26.7 wt% and 18.5 wt%, on a dry ash-free basis, was obtained from Na2CO3 treatment of KA and KOH treatment of ED, respectively. The bio-crude from both feedstocks mainly consisted of cyclic oxygenates, whose selectivities were maximum in K2CO3 and CaCO3 treatments. The calorific value of the bio-crude was 38.5 MJ/kg from KA and 30.8 MJ/kg from ED, while that of biochars was 20–24 MJ/kg. A high degree of deoxygenation (64.2%) was observed in bio-crude produced from Na2SO4 treatment of KA biomass. Salts of Cl–, SO42– and K+ constituted the major inorganic portion of the aqueous phase. Maximum energy recovery (99%) was observed from the Na2CO3 treatment of ED. 

Application of waste chalk/CoFe2O4/K2CO3 composite as a reclaimable catalyst for biodiesel generation from sunflower oil
This investigation aimed to produce a new composited catalyst from a waste chalk powder, a waste generated by the construction industry, to produce biodiesel from sunflower oil. The waste chalk was modified by CoFe2O4 nanoparticles and K2CO3. The surface tests showed that the obtained catalyst has been successfully synthesized with desired surface properties. The surface areas of waste chalk, waste chalk/CoFe2O4, and waste chalk/CoFe2O4/K2CO3 were determined 20.8, 77.8, and 5.8 m2/g, respectively. This indicates that the waste chalk/CoFe2O4/K2CO3 catalyst has a lower surface area due to K2CO3 being placed on the catalyst. Results showed the efficiency of RSM-CCD (R2 = 0.992) compared to ANN (R2 = 0.974). It was shown that a contact time of 180 min, a temperature of 65 °C, a waste chalk/CoFe2O4/K2CO3 mass of 2 wt%, and methanol to oil mole ratio of 15:1 gave the highest efficiency (98.87%) of biodiesel production at the laboratory conditions. The kinetic results of the process showed the energy of activation and frequency factor of 11.8 kJ/mol and 0.78 min−1, respectively. Also, the values of ΔH°, ΔS°, and ΔG° at 65 °C was calculated to be 9010.7 J/mol, −256.3 J/mol and 95.7 kJ/mol, respectively, indicating that the biodiesel production process is endothermic requiring high energy for proceeding. The generated catalyst has an efficiency of over 90% up to 6 steps of reuse. The generated biodiesel was met most of the international standard levels. 

Highly Dispersed CoFe Catalyst for Selective Hydrogenation of Biomass-Derived Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol
Biorefinery to fabricate biofuels, chemicals, and materials has attracted much attention. Herein, a highly dispersed non-noble CoFe immobilized on nitrogen-doped carbon catalyst is prepared via a template sacrificial method. Owing to the synergetic effect of Co and Fe, the high dispersity of CoFe nanoparticles and large specific surface area, the optimized Co9-Fe1-NC catalyst exhibits high activity for the selective hydrogenation of furfural (FAL) to furfuryl alcohol (FOL). Hundred percentage conversion of FAL and 99% selectivity of FOL are obtained at 120 °C with 1 MPa H2 for 4 h, which is superior to most of the reported nonprecious catalysts. Moreover, the Co9-Fe1-NC catalyst can also catalyze the hydrogenation of nitro and carbonyl compounds efficiently. The mechanism of hydrogenation of FAL is revealed by density functional theory calculations. This work provides a promising synthetic strategy for the rational structural design of efficient selective hydrogenation catalysts. Wiley-VCH GmbH

Performance indicators for the optimal BTE of biodiesels with additives through engine testing by the Taguchi approach
Biodiesel commercialization is questionable due to poor brake thermal efficiency. Biodiesel utilization should be improved with the addition of fuel additives. Hydrogen peroxide is a potential fuel additive due to extra hydrogen and oxygen content, which improves the combustion process. In this experimental study, biodiesel has been produced from Jatropha oil employing catalyzed transesterification homogeneously to examine its influence on the performance and emissions at engine loads with 1500 rpm utilizing a four-stroke single-cylinder diesel engine. D60B40 (having 60% diesel and 40% biodiesel) and D60B30A10 (60% diesel, 30% biodiesel and 10% hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)), are the fuel mixtures in the current study. The addition of H2O2 reduces emissions and enhances the combustion process. This effect occurred due to the micro-explosion of the injected fuel particles (which increases in-cylinder pressure and heat release rate (HRR)). An increase of 20% in BTE and 25% reduction in BSFC for D60B30A10 was observed compared to D60B40. Significant reduction in emissions of HC up to 17.54%, smoke by 24.6% CO2 by 3.53%, and an increase in NOx was noticed when the engine is operated with D60B30A10. The HRR increased up to 18.6%, ID reduced by 10.82%, and in-cylinder pressure increased by 8.5%. Test runs can be minimized as per Taguchi's design of experiments. It is possible to provide the estimates for the full factorial design of experiments. Exhaust gas temperature standards are evaluated and examined for all fuel blends. 

Tertiary amine as an efficient CO2 switchable solvent for extracting lipids from hypersaline microalgae
Considering the momentous cost drivers in energy efficient algal biorefinery processes, a green alternative in extracting lipid from microalgae is anticipated. Switchable solvent system using tertiary amines namely DMBA (Dimethylbenzylamine), DMCHA (Dimethylcyclohexylamine), and DIPEA (Diisopropylethylamine) for lipid extraction from wet hypersaline microalgae was investigated in this study. Interestingly, present study showed that at 1:1 (v/v of fresh DMBA solvent: microalgal biomass), and for 1 h extraction time, the lipid yield was 41.9, 26.6, and 33.3% for Chlorella sp. NITT 05, Chlorella sp. NITT 02, and Picochlorum sp. NITT 04, respectively and for recovered DMBA solvent, at 1:1 (v/v) and for 1 h extraction time, the lipid yield was 40.8, 25.97, and 32%, respectively. Similarly, lipid extraction using DMCHA solvent for Chlorella sp. NITT 05, Chlorella sp. NITT 02, and Picochlorum sp. NITT 04 at 1:1 (v/v of solvent: microalgal biomass) and 1 h extraction time showed 34.28, 24.24 and 23.33% lipids, respectively for fresh solvent and 34.01, 24.24 and 23.18% for recovered solvent respectively; while DIPEA was not competent in lipid extraction from three tested microalgae. FAME profile revealed the presence of saturated fatty acids as 43.04%, 40.98%, 38.45% and monounsaturated fatty acids as 28.38%, 27.05%, 23.3% for Chlorella sp. NITT05, Picochlorum sp. NITT04, Chlorella sp. NITT02, respectively. This study attributes Chlorella sp. NITT05 and Picochlorum sp. NITT04 to be ideal algal species for biodiesel production. 

Pt-WO3 oxydehydrates fructose to furans in the gas phase
Bio-feedstocks are destined to replace fossil fuels for specialty chemicals, but current bio-refineries mainly ferment monosaccharides to ethanol, a commodity chemical that is blended with gasoline as a fuel. The market price of biofuels is several-fold lower than specialty chemicals and monomers. Rather than cracking the C6-sugars ethanol, here, develop dehydration and oxydehydration processes to valuable platform C6-chemicals like 5-hydroxymethyl furfural (HMF), 2,5-dimethyl furan (DFF), and 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid. This gas-phase process atomizes an aqueous solution of fructose into a fluidized bed reactor operating at 350°C. The solution forms an aerosol (droplet size of 30µm), which contacts the hot Pt-WO3/TiO2 catalyst and reacts to HMF rather than caramelizing. The maximum yield reached 21% and it increased slightly with temperature, and decreased with increasing catalyst inventory; it was less sensitive to O2 concentration, Pt loading on the catalyst, liquid feed flow rate, and fructose feed concentration. At the optimal condition, selectivity continued to increase with time even after 3h reaction. Selectivity to 2,5-diformyl furan reached 42% at 250°C with HMF as a feedstock.

Spray pyrolysis-assisted synthesis of hollow cobalt nitrogen-doped carbon catalyst for the performance enhancement of membraneless fuel cells
Hollow cobalt nitrogen-doped carbon (H-CoNC) is suggested for use in the membraneless hydrogen peroxide fuel cell (HPFC) and enzymatic biofuel cell (EBC) as anodic catalyst boosting hydrogen peroxide oxidation reaction (HPOR). For fabricating H-CoNCs, a facile spray pyrolysis-assisted process is used, and such produced H-CoNCs show a porous and hollow-shell structure, while they include a large amount of isolated Co atoms and coordinate bonds with Co and nitrogen (Co-N4). This structure promotes mass transfer to the active site and excellent catalytic activity for HPOR. With these benefits of H-CoNCs, the current density of the bioanode consisting of H-CoNC, carbon nanotube, and glucose oxidase (H-CoNC/CNT/GOx) observed at 0.3 V under 150 mM glucose is 315.5 μA cm−2, which is 2.1 times higher than that of a conventionally synthesized catalyst using Co-doped carbon nanoparticles (CoNC-NPs) (CoNC-NPs/CNT/GOx, 146.2 μA cm−2). With this superior catalytic activity for HPOR, maximum power density (MPD) of membraneless EBC using H-CoNC/CNT/GOx is 33.8 ± 4.52 μW cm−2, which is 52% higher than that of CoNP-NPs/CNT/GOx. In addition, a membraneless HPFC using H-CoNC/CNT demonstrates 4.87 times higher MPD (231.3 ± 11.3 μW cm−2) than that using CoNC-NPs/CNT, proving that H-CoNC improves the performance of fuel cells by its excellent catalytic activity. John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Recent Advances in Algae-Derived Biofuels and Bioactive Compounds
Owing to the declining reserve of fossil resources as well as more concerns on climate change, and essential energy security, and especially the broad consensus on carbon neutralization, it is significantly critical to develop renewable and sustainable energy and chemicals. Algae as alternative resources can be applied to produce biofuels and biochemicals. Among them, algae-derived natural pigments exhibit high market value due to their uses in pharmaceutical and food industries. As a result of the developments of engineering tools, it is feasible to scale up algal processing and applications. Prior to the industrial implementation, life cycle assessment is required to ensure the environmental feasibility of algae-based biofuels and biochemicals. In this article, recent advances in processing algae for liquid, gas, and solid fuels are reviewed. New approaches for enhancing the natural pigment accumulation are also discussed. Recent studies on life cycle assessment of algae-based biofuels and biochemicals, as well as the main challenges faced by the algal biorefinery, are discussed in this manuscript. American Chemical Society.

Fabricating nickel phyllosilicate-like nanosheets to prepare a defect-rich catalyst for the one-pot conversion of lignin into hydrocarbons under mild conditions
The one-pot conversion of lignin biomass into high-grade hydrocarbon biofuels via catalytic hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) holds significant promise for renewable energy. A great challenge for this route involves developing efficient non-noble metal catalysts to obtain a high yield of hydrocarbons under relatively mild conditions. Herein, a high-performance catalyst has been prepared via the in situ reduction of Ni phyllosilicate-like nanosheets (Ni-PS) synthesized by a reduction-oxidation strategy at room temperature. The Ni-PS precursors are partly converted into Ni0 nanoparticles by in situ reduction and the rest remain as supports. The Si-containing supports are found to have strong interactions with the nickel species, hindering the aggregation of Ni0 particles and minimizing the Ni0 particle size. The catalyst contains abundant surface defects, weak Lewis acid sites and highly dispersed Ni0 particles. The catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic activity towards the depolymerization and HDO of the lignin model compound, 2-phenylethyl phenyl ether (PPE), and the enzymatic hydrolysis of lignin under mild conditions, with 98.3% cycloalkane yield for the HDO of PPE under 3 MPa H2 pressure at 160 °C and 40.4% hydrocarbon yield for that of lignin under 3 MPa H2 pressure at 240 °C, and its catalytic activity can compete with reported noble metal catalysts. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Chemoselective and Tandem Reduction of Arenes Using a Metal-Organic Framework-Supported Single-Site Cobalt Catalyst
The development of heterogeneous, chemoselective, and tandem catalytic systems using abundant metals is vital for the sustainable synthesis of fine and commodity chemicals. We report a robust and recyclable single-site cobalt-hydride catalyst based on a porous aluminum metal-organic framework (DUT-5 MOF) for chemoselective hydrogenation of arenes. The DUT-5 node-supported cobalt(II) hydride (DUT-5-CoH) is a versatile solid catalyst for chemoselective hydrogenation of a range of nonpolar and polar arenes, including heteroarenes such as pyridines, quinolines, isoquinolines, indoles, and furans to afford cycloalkanes and saturated heterocycles in excellent yields. DUT-5-CoH exhibited excellent functional group tolerance and could be reusable at least five times without decreased activity. The same MOF-Co catalyst was also efficient for tandem hydrogenation-hydrodeoxygenation of aryl carbonyl compounds, including biomass-derived platform molecules such as furfural and hydroxymethylfurfural to cycloalkanes. In the case of hydrogenation of cumene, our spectroscopic, kinetic, and density functional theory (DFT) studies suggest the insertion of a trisubstituted alkene intermediate into the Co-H bond occurring in the turnover limiting step. Our work highlights the potential of MOF-supported single-site base-metal catalysts for sustainable and environment-friendly industrial production of chemicals and biofuels. American Chemical Society.

Pyrolysis of date seeds loaded with layered double hydroxide: Kinetics, thermodynamics, and pyrolytic gas properties
Development of date seeds in-situ pyrolysis utilizing layered double hydroxide (LDH)-based catalysts is still in its infancy. This study investigates the thermokinetics of date seeds (DS) loaded with LDH by thermogravimetric analysis. Three different LDHs, namely Mg-Fe (MF), Ni-Fe (NF), and Co-Fe (CF), were synthesized by the co-precipitation method and loaded with dried date seed powder in a 1:10 ratio, which were then pyrolyzed in-situ in a custom-designed pyrolytic reactor (semi-batch cracking furnace) at an operating temperature and heating rate of 500 °C and 10 °C/min under inert atmosphere (N2). Under optimized operating conditions, the LDH-loaded DS provided a bio-oil yield between 65 and 67 wt%, while the pyrolysis–gas yield was about 20 wt%. The FT-IR analysis of LDH-derived bio-oil confirmed the presence of aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons that can be used effectively for energy applications. The pyrolysis kinetics, pyrolysis gas composition, and thermodynamic properties of biomass-loaded with LDH were also investigated. Thermokinetic analysis was performed using data from Coats-Redfern, which fitted the kinetic model at five different reaction mechanisms: chemical reaction order, phase interfacial reaction, power-law, diffusion-controlled, and nucleation and growth models for biomass conversion rates of 20–40% and 40–80%. The results showed that the diffusion-controlled parabolic law (D1) and the fourth-order reaction model (F4) are likely mechanisms in the conversion range of 20–40% and 40–80% for LDH-loaded date seeds. Based on the ascending order of activation energy (Ea), the biomasses can be classified as DS &gt; MF-DS &gt; NF-DS &gt; CF-DS. In addition, the main gasses released and detected from the decomposition of pure biomass (date seeds) and LDH-loaded biomass through a micro GC-Varian were CH4, H2, CO, and CO2. A plausible reaction mechanism for the role of layered double hydroxides in the conversion of bio-oils and pyrolytic-gas components was also presented. This study demonstrates the role of LDH-based catalysts in the pyrolysis of date seeds to produce value-added chemicals and biofuels. 

A sustainable smart multi-type biofuel manufacturing with the optimum energy utilization under flexible production
Biofuel manufacturing from renewable biomass through a smart manufacturing system is an important alternative to fossil fuels, which helps to decrease dependability on conventional fuel and decrease carbon emanations. By utilizing efficient labors, smart machines, and minimized energy utilization, the conventional biofuel manufacturing framework can be converted into a smart sustainable manufacturing framework. The existing conventional fuel demand can be replaced by biofuel. This study efforts to make pure biofuel with less amount of carbon emanations and energy utilization through a smart multi-type biofuel manufacturing framework, where the demand of the biofuel is selling price dependent. The different energy costs including air handling cost, lighting cost are calculated in this work-in-process inventory. The carbon emissions cost is included in every stage of this model. A variable demand has introduced for the maximization of profit. To reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions, a two-stage inspection cost with a variable manufacturing rate is taken to make the manufacturing process flexible such that the amount of impure biofuel is minimized. Although a random manufacturing rate is applied through a smart manufacturing system, still impure biofuel is manufactured. The impure biofuel is remanufactured again through refining just after the well-planned manufacturing ends. In this model, the multi-delivery technique is used such that a fixed amount of biofuel of n segments of the pure biofuel is transported to market places at predetermined intervals at the time of delivery frame. The classical optimization technique is used for continuous and differentiable variables and the mixed integer programming technique is utilized for discrete variables to maximize the total profit globally. To validate the model's usefulness, four numerical observations are studied. It is shown that by utilizing the said procedure, the percentage of impure biofuel can be decreased truly through the minimized energy consumption. The graphical representation and the sensitivity experiment show the impact of every parameter with the whole cost of the research paper. Numerical results assist to get the maximum profit and the optimum selling price of biofuel globally in a sustainable smart multi-type biofuel manufacturing system.

Single-step catalytic deoxygenation of palm feedstocks for the production of sustainable bio-jet fuel
The production of jet fuel from renewable source (i.e., biomass) has been improving since the past few years. In Malaysia, palm-based biomass is being widely studied for the production of transportation fuels due to its abundant supply. Hence, this study focused on the production of bio-jet fuel from different types of palm oil (e.g., palm-based waste cooking oil, palm olein, palm kernel oil) through deoxygenation process. Several types of deoxygenation catalysts (e.g., CaO, Zeolite, V2O5, Pd/C, TiO2) were selected to investigate the efficiency of jet fuel-based hydrocarbon production under condition of 400 °C for 2 h with different catalyst loading (e.g., 0 wt%, 5 wt%, 6 wt%, 7 wt%, 8 wt%, 9 wt% and 10 wt%). The physico-chemical properties of yielded liquid fuel were tested by using GC-MS analyses, as well as density, kinematic viscosity, cloud point, pour point, smoke point, flash point and final boiling point. The deoxygenation of PKO over Pd/C at 8 wt% yielded the highest molar concentration of 96% liquid product (e.g., n-paraffins, isoparaffins, olefins, naphthenes, aromatic) and 73% of jet paraffins selectivity (C8–C16) under 400 °C for 2 h. In addition, the physicochemical properties of palm-based liquid fuel are complied with standard Jet A-1 fuel, in accordance to ASTM standards. The low temperature fluidity, combustion characteristics, and fuel volatility of this liquid product were comparable to Jet A-1 fuel. 

The synthesis of a high-quality biodiesel product derived from Krabok (Irvingia Malayana) seed oil as a new raw material of Thailand
The production of high-quality biodiesel product from Krabok (Irvingia Malayana) seed oil, new high efficiency, and high potential raw material, was studied using liquid biofuel energy in Thailand. The seed flesh of Krabok was extracted with hexane as a solvent by several techniques to compare the efficiency of each extraction method. The optimal technique for extracting the oil from the Krabok seed flesh was the Soxhlet extraction method which could extract oil content up to 63.58 wt%. The major fatty acid compositions of the obtained Krabok seed flesh oil were lauric acid (C12:0) and myristic acid (C14:0) as around 52 and 35 wt%, respectively. Additionally, the results also found that the extracted Krabok seed flesh oil was obtained greater than 95 wt% of the saturated fatty acid compound. The synthesis of a high-quality biodiesel product from Krabok seed flesh oil was performed via a one-step transesterification process catalyzed by a CaO catalyst. The obtained Krabok seed flesh oil biodiesel product was within both the ASTM-D6751 and EN-14214 standards for liquid bio-auto fuels, and it has properties that were very close to high-speed petroleum diesel oil. Consequently, the Krabok seed flesh oil was one of the exciting sources of raw materials in terms of high efficiency, quality, and potentiality in the production of biodiesel products. 

Highly active iron-promoted hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) for deoxygenation of triglycerides to green hydrocarbon-like biofuel
The interest in the production of sustainable hydrocarbon-like biofuel is increasing due to the environmental issues such as global warming and uncertainty of crude oil prices. A series of Fe catalysts (5, 10, 40, and 100 wt% Fe) supported on the hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) were successfully prepared for the production of biofuel via deoxygenation (DO) reaction. In the DO reaction, the diesel range biofuel is produced in the absence of H2 and solvents. Interestingly, the 40 wt.%Fe/HMS catalyst exhibited the highest conversion and selectivity of 81.4 and 84.8%, respectively toward C8-C20 hydrocarbons-like biofuel at 380 °C for 2 h. This performance is closely related to the well-dispersed Fe in the hematite phase, along with the interaction between Si-OH and Fe-O bonds. The acidity, surface area, and pore size of Fe/HMS have improved the catalytic activity. This result demonstrates that the Fe/HMS catalyst is a potential DO catalyst for the production of renewable hydrocarbon-like biofuel. 

Enhancement of the combustion, performance and emission characteristics of spirulina microalgae biodiesel blends using nanoparticles
Over the past few years, the interest and need for an alternative fuel have been increasing and the biofuels are proved to the better fuel. The main objective of the paper is to improve the performance and emulsion characteristics of the biodiesel extracted from spirulina microalgae by adding little dosage of nanoparticles as a catalyst for the improved performance overall. The nanoparticles taken for the research was Al2O3 from metallic nanoparticles group. All the tests were conducted in CI diesel engine at different load conditions such as 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% load. The fuel blends used are B0(Diesel 100%), B15 (15% spirulina biofuel + 85% diesel), B15 (15% spirulina biofuel + 85% diesel- 75 ppm Al2O3), B30 (30% spirulina biofuel + 70% diesel), and B30 (30% spirulina biofuel + 70% diesel- 75 ppm Al2O3) and with all biofuel blends and with pure diesel, 75 ppm Al2O3 nanoparticles were sonicated to estimate the combustion performance and emission characteristics. From results, it is found that the nanoparticles added B15 biodiesel reduced the harmful gas emission while increased the combustion qualities. With regard to the engine performance, the fuel B15N and B30N reported higher BTE compared to B15 and B30. Further, the B15N reported reduced fuel consumption than other blends. 

Exploration of combustion behavior in a compression ignition engine fuelled with low-viscous Pimpinella anisum and waste cooking oil biodiesel blends
In today's world due to a greater demand for fossil fuels, many alternative solutions such as extracting energy from waste and also from green biofuels have been offered. Among various studies, a new approach on the usage of low viscous Pimpinella anisum as a green biofuel with waste cooking oil biodiesel blend in the diesel engine efficiently has shed new light in the field of alternative renewable sources of energy. The aim of this work is to eliminate the usage of conventional fuel in a diesel engine by incorporating binary green fuel (Waste Cooking Oil biodiesel blended with Pimpinella anisum as low viscous oil) effectively. The enhancement of Waste Cooking Oil (WCO) biodiesel production was done by employing the transesterification process. Calcium oxide heterogeneous catalyst was prepared using eggshell and it was doped with barium of 4–8 %wt. to improve the catalytic efficiency. Pimpinella anisum oil with its promising properties such as low viscosity, high O2 content, and high boiling point is better suited to the diesel engine and was prepared by steam distillation method. Binary fuels were prepared by blending Pimpinella anisum oil (A) with WCO biodiesel (B) in 90%, 80%, and 70% of volume. The engine was tested with pure diesel and WCO biodiesel for comparative study. The addition of Pimpinella anisum elongated the period of ignition delay. Among the tested fuels, B20A80 has shown better heat release rate (HRR) and cylinder pressure, bringing brake thermal efficiency (BTE) near to that of diesel since the biodiesel operation decreases BTE in diesel engines. It also has shown the reduced formation of soot, Carbon monoxide (CO), and hydrocarbon (HC) emissions by 81.43%, 43.8%, and 18.6% respectively. A slight increase of 2.49% in Oxide of nitrogen (NOx) emissions in compared with the operation of diesel was observed. 

Layered Double Hydroxide-Derived Bimetallic Ni−Cu Catalysts Prompted the Efficient Conversion of γ-Valerolactone to 2-Methyltetrahydrofuran
The catalytic upgrading of γ-valerolactone (GVL) to liquid biofuel, which is of great importance to the development of new types of high-performance heterogeneous catalysts, is regarded as a technically difficult task because of the thermal stability of GVL. Consequently, in this study, a series of nanocatalysts NixCu3-x/Al2O3 (x=0, 1, 1.5, 2, and 3) derived from layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors were prepared for the hydrogenation of biomass-derived GVL to 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (2-MTHF). The optimal bimetallic Ni2Cu1/Al2O3 catalyst showed high 2-MTHF selectivity with complete GVL conversion. Detailed characterization revealed cooperation between the acid sites and Ni−Cu alloy in the bimetallic catalysts, which was responsible for their high activities. More importantly, the strong interaction between Ni and Cu changed the surface chemical environment, which generated different copper species and enhanced the H2 activation ability. The reusability of the Ni2Cu1/Al2O3 catalyst and the effect of the reaction conditions, such as temperature, H2 pressure, and solvent, were also investigated. Wiley-VCH GmbH

Effect of surface properties of TiO2on the performance of Pt/TiO2catalysts for furfural hydrogenation
Hydrogenation of biomass-derived furfural is an important process in biofuel production. Herein, different Pt-supported TiO2 morphologies: nanorod (NR), nanoparticle (NP), and hollow microsphere (HMS) were prepared by the impregnation-chemical reduction method. The furfural conversion increased with an increase of Pt dispersion. However, cyclopentanone selectivity was affected by TiO2 properties, the strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) effect, and the reaction conditions. The Pt/TiO2 NR catalyst exhibited the highest cyclopentanone selectivity of 50.4%. Based on the H2-temperature programmed desorption (H2-TPD) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results, the Pt/TiO2 NR catalyst showed a SMSI effect, which was introduced by the chemical reduction method. We suggest that electron charge transfer from Ti species to Pt in the Pt/TiO2 NR catalyst affects the cyclopentanone selectivity by controlling the adsorption strength between the reactant and the Pt surface, thus retarding the formation of byproducts. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Tailoring interfacial microenvironment of palladium-zeolite catalysts for the efficient low-temperature hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin in water
Efficient low-temperature hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin derivatives to produce biofuels and high value-added chemicals is still of challenge. Here, we have constructed a high active and stable 0.2 wt.% Pd/MS-HZSM-5(30) catalyst, and 94.7 % yield of 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) can be achieved in HDO of vanillin (VAN, a typical platform molecule of lignin derivatives) under milder reaction conditions (60 °C, 5 h, molar ratio of VAN/Pd=1200, water phase), outperforming the most works reported recently. Detailed experimental and mechanistic studies demonstrated that the superior catalytic performance was due to the rapid hydrogenolysis of generated intermediate (vanillyl alcohol, VAL) to MMP proceeded in an interfacial microenvironmental created by Pd NPs and acidic sites in Pd/MS-HZSM-5(30). These new insights will provide potential guidance for the efficient low-temperature production of biofuels and valuable chemicals from lignin derivatives or raw lignin. Wiley-VCH GmbH.

Oxygenate Reactions over PdCu and PdAg Catalysts: Distinguishing Electronic and Geometric Effects on Reactivity and Selectivity
We investigate PdxCuy/SiO2 and PdxAgy/SiO2 catalysts in the context of oxygenate upgrading for biofuels. To this end, we measure the rates of decarbonylation and hydrogenation of butyraldehyde and the reactive intermediate for the industrially relevant Guerbet condensation and correlate the selectivity and reactivity with the properties of the catalysts via a range of characterization efforts. Data obtained from EXAFS and XANES show that the bulk of the catalyst metallic nanoparticles is enriched in Pd, while the surface is enriched in Cu and Ag. The data for PdxCuy/SiO2 show clear dominance of geometric (ensemble) effects on the selectivity. Conversely, the electronic (ligand) effects of alloying dominate over the reaction rate of the catalysts, as electron donation from Cu to Pd promotes Cu and increases the desired (de)hydrogenation reactions. In contrast, in PdAg catalysts, the weaker electronic exchange, as indicated by Pd LIII XANES and theoretical calculations, is not sufficient to promote Ag, resulting in the monotonic loss of activity with the increasing Ag content and without selectivity improvement. We use the implications of these findings to provide valuable design principles for oxygenate catalysis and to discover a highly selective bifunctional catalyst system, comprising PdCu3/SiO2 and TiO2 for upgrading ethanol to longer-chain oxygenates. American Chemical Society.

Hydrodeoxygenation of Vanillin over Ni2P/Zeolite Catalysts: Role of Surface Acid Density
Developing efficient catalysts for biomass hydrodeoxygenation into high-quality biofuels and chemicals is a current topic of great interest. In this study, Ni2P catalysts supported on different zeolites (MCM-41, HY, Hβ) were fabricated for vanillin hydrodeoxygenation by one-pot method instead of temperature-programmed reduction (TPR). The prepared catalysts were characterized using XRD, XPS, NH3-TPD and N2 physisorption. The results showed that the support has a significant influence on the reactivity of the Ni2P-based catalyst. The Ni2P/HY catalyst contains a higher acid site density, which leads to the almost complete conversion of vanillin to the quantitative yield of 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) via direct hydrogenolysis path at 220 °C, 5 h and 2 MPa of H2. Graphical Abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Synthesis of Magnetic Catalyst Derived from Oil Palm Empty Fruit Bunch for Esterification of Oleic Acid: An Optimization Study
Biomass, renewable, abundantly available and a good source of energy. The conversion of biomass waste into valuable products has received wide attention. In this study, an empty fruit bunch (oil palm EFB) supported magnetic acid catalyst for esterification reaction was successfully prepared via the one-step impregnation process. The new magnetic catalyst achieved a higher surface area of 188.87 m2/g with a total acidity of 2.4 mmol/g and identified iron oxide as γ-Fe2O3. The magnetization value of 24.97 emu/g demonstrated that the superparamagnetic catalyst could be easily recovered and separated after the reaction using an external magnet. The catalytic performance of oil palm EFB supported magnetic acid catalyst was examined by esterification of oleic acid. Esterification process parameters were optimized via Response Surface Methodology (RSM) optimization tool with Box-Behnken design (BBD). The following optimum parameters were determined: an amount of 9 wt% catalyst, molar ratio of methanol to oleic acid of 12:1, reaction time of 2 h and reaction temperature of 60 °C with a maximum conversion of 94.91% was achieved. The catalyst can be recycled up to five cycles with minimal loss in its activity. The oil palm waste-based magnetic acid catalyst indicates its potential replacement to the existing solid catalysts that are economical and environmentally friendly for the esterification process in biofuel applications. Copyright by Authors, Published by BCREC Group.

Recent evolutionary trends in the production of biofuels
Substitutes for fossil fuels or petroleum-based diesel have comparable addresses to monoalkyl fatty acid esters or methyl ethyl esters (biodiesel) and might lessen carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions. Biodiesel may be made from renewable and sustainable ingredients consisting of vegetable oils and non-poisonous to the ecosystem. The manufacturing of biodiesel with renewable feedstocks and enzymes as catalysts can be supported commercially; however, studies into enhancing performance may be beneficial. Biodiesel gives a sustainable possibility to address the socio-economic and sustainable fuel problems. For competitive biodiesel, massive studies have been focused on growing new and sustainable biodiesel manufacturing technology to enhance productivity. Recently, fourth-generation biofuels (FGBs), genetically modified (GM) algae biomass, have attracted much interest from educational and business communities. However, changing FGBs with mineral assets stays fraught with many demanding situations. In particular, the technical elements of genetic engineering features want to be specified. However, little or no interest has been paid to GM algae biomass. Algal Genetics has a restricted quantity of development views and demanding situations dealing with FGBs. The fourth-generation biofuel concentrates on improving the microorganisms genetically. Although, in the primitive grade, the last two generations of biofuel require genetic change for the more like-suited in yielding a high-quality amount of green diesel. The aim is to define four generations with the most recent developments. This paper consists of the current production strategies of biofuel and the improvement efforts significant for third and fourth generations, mainly a genetic exchange of algae or bacterial strains and co-cultivation of several microorganisms.

Recent advances in green technology and Industrial Revolution 4.0 for a sustainable future
This review gives concise information on green technology (GT) and Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR 4.0). Climate change has begun showing its impacts on the environment, and the change is real. The devastating COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected lives and the world from the deadly consequences at a social, economic, and environmental level. In order to balance this crisis, there is a need to transition toward green, sustainable forms of living and practices. We need green innovative technologies (GTI) and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies to develop green, durable, biodegradable, and eco-friendly products for a sustainable future. GTI encompasses all innovations that contribute to developing significant products, services, or processes that lower environmental harm, impact, and worsening while augmenting natural resource utilization. Sensors are typically used in IoT environmental monitoring applications to aid ecological safety by nursing air or water quality, atmospheric or soil conditions, and even monitoring species’ movements and habitats. The industries and the governments are working together, have come up with solutions—the Green New Deal, carbon pricing, use of bio-based products as biopesticides, in biopharmaceuticals, green building materials, bio-based membrane filters for removing pollutants, bioenergy, biofuels and are essential for the green recovery of world economies. Environmental biotechnology, Green Chemical Engineering, more bio-based materials to separate pollutants, and product engineering of advanced materials and environmental economies are discussed here to pave the way toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the UN and achieve the much-needed IR 4.0 for a greener-balanced environment and a sustainable future. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Parametric comparison of biodiesel transesterification processes using non-edible feedstocks: Castor bean and jatropha oils
Concern about environmental problems and climate change has led to increasing efforts toward a transition of the global energy matrix to renewable sources. In this sense, biodiesel is a renewable and alternative biofuel proposal and castor bean and jatropha are interesting non-edible raw materials for its production owing to their high fatty acid content. Transesterification is the most common process applied to industrial-scale biodiesel production owing to its attractive economic characteristics. This process can be catalyzed by chemical (homogeneous or heterogeneous) or biochemical (enzymatic) catalysts. The choice of raw material, as well as the production route of biodiesel, will significantly influence the process parameters. Considering the importance of biodiesel production in Brazil, the present work explores biodiesel production routes focusing on these non-edible raw materials (jatropha and castor bean) and compares them with the process using soy bean, as this is one of the most used worldwide raw materia. In addition, an extensive literature review was performed and the software Microsoft Power BI Desktop was used to model and analyze the selected works, grouping them according to the pattern of each route's influence on process parameters. In addition, the technical scores of each route were determined. The homogeneous chemical route presented better scores and the most interesting parameters for all raw materials; however, considering the technical and environmental advantages related to biochemical and heterogeneous routes, application of environmental impact studies such as life cycle analysis can help decision-making in the search for the most appropriate production route. Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Highly basic and active ZnO–x% K2O nanocomposite catalysts for the production of methyl ethyl ketone biofuel
Herein we demonstrate the preparation and characterization of nanocrystalline ZnO, either pure or promoted with 1–10 wt.% K2O. All catalysts calcined at 400°C were in the nano-crystallite scale as confirmed by X-ray powder diffraction analysis in the 22.9–28.0 nm range. According to the CO2-temperature-programmed desorption study using thermogravimetric analysis and differential scanning calorimetry techniques, they have a broad spectrum of surface basic sites. Because of the significance of methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) as a next-generation biofuel candidate with high-octane, low boiling point, and relatively high vapor pressure. The prepared catalysts were examined during the direct production of MEK via 2-butanol (2B) dehydrogenation. Among catalysts tested, ZnO promoted with 1% K2O showed a superior catalytic activity towards the conversion of 2B to MEK, that is, 71.7% at a reaction temperature of 275°C. The selectivity for the production of MEK over all catalysts was ≥95% across all catalysts when using N2-gas as a carrier. The use of airflow in this reaction resulted in a clear loss of selectivity toward MEK production as well as the appearance of undesirable products such as acetone and methanol. All catalytic properties of catalysts, particularly those of moderate strength, were highly correlated with the distribution of surface basic sites. Finally, a reaction mechanism was proposed for the dehydrogenation of 2B, followed by the partial oxidation of MEK. The Authors. Energy Science & Engineering published by the Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Lignin-derived layered 3D biochar with controllable acidity for enhanced catalytic upgrading of Jatropha oil to biodiesel
Biochar materials have wide applications in soil improvement/remediation, water pollution control, gas storage, and heterogeneous catalysis, while usually suffering from low surface areas and harsh preparation conditions. In this study, a green, environmentally friendly, and low-cost biochar catalyst (PAP-MEPP-C) was prepared by thermochemical treatment of lignin-derived monomers at a low temperature (80 °C), and further developed for high-efficiency production of biodiesel from non-edible Jatropha oil (JO). The characterization results showed that the structure of the PAP-MEPP-C biochar catalyst was layered and 3D structure, and its acidity could be controlled by changing the monomeric composition. The reaction conditions of preparing biodiesel catalyzed by PAP-MEPP-C were optimized by the response surface method, and the obtained maximum biodiesel yield was 97.2%. The kinetics of the (trans)esterification reaction over the developed biochar catalyst PAP-MEPP-C was studied, and its superior catalytic performance to other tested acid catalysts could be supported by a relatively lower activation energy (36 kJ mol−1). In addition, the biochar catalyst was highly stable and could be recycled four times with more than 90% biodiesel yield.

A zirconium(IV)-based metal–organic framework modified with ruthenium and palladium nanoparticles: synthesis and catalytic performance for selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol
The conversion of biomass into sustainable biofuel is achievable through biorefinery. In this regard, the selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol, 2-methylfuran, and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol has attracted a great interest. This research aims to prepare an active and selective catalyst for hydrogenation of furfural in liquid phase. To achieve this objective, we employed a water-stable zirconium(IV)-based metal–organic framework (MOF) [Zr6O4(OH)4(BTC)2(CH3COO)6] (Zr–BTC) (BTC = benzene-1,3,5-tricarboxylate) and modified it with Ru and Pd to form Ru/Zr–BTC and Pd/Zr–BTC. The diffractograms of Zr–BTC modified with Ru and Pd metal fit well with the diffractogram of the pristine Zr–BTC, indicating that the presence of Ru and Pd in Zr–BTC does not change the Zr–BTC structure. This is further confirmed by FTIR spectra. The obtained materials showed type I adsorption isotherms, thus the material can be classified as microporous. The presence of Pd/Ru metal on the surface and in the pores of Zr–BTC decreases the total pore volume and BET surface area. Electron microscopy (SEM and TEM) analysis further confirmed that the Pd and Ru were successfully encapsulated in Zr–BTC. Ru/Zr–BTC and Pd/Zr–BTC showed excellent performance in the catalytic liquid-phase hydrogenation reaction of furfural to furfuryl alcohol with conversion of 99.4% and 98.4% for Ru/Zr–BTC and Pd/Zr–BTC, respectively, and selectivity to furfuryl alcohol (FA) up to 100% for both catalysts. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Institute of Chemistry, Slovak Academy of Sciences.

Recent approaches on the optimization of biomass gasification process parameters for product H2 and syngas ratio: a review
Biomass gasification technology has an ancient and well-established background. The technology has widely been used to produce H2 and syngas which is subsequently upgraded to obtain valuable biofuels, Fischer–Tropsch chemicals and used in combined heat and power (CHP) plants. Abatement of tar-related complexes with an improved hydrogen content and syngas ratio (H2/CO) via biomass gasification is a critical challenge. In this review, an attempt has been made to evaluate the critical parameters affecting biomass gasification process. It is revealed that each parameter (i.e., biomass feedstock particle size, moisture content, gasifying agent, residence time, equivalence ratio, steam to biomass ratio, and gasification temperature) has significant impact of H2 and syngas production. Fluidized bed gasifiers have been quite efficient for small to medium scale applications to produce optimal syngas ratios. Use of catalyst greatly influenced the H2 and syngas yields. Impregnated catalysts were found to have more pronounced effect on the water–gas shift reaction resulting in improved gas yields. Although, the parametric optimization could be achieved; notwithstanding, economic feasibility and industrial viability are to be considered too., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

Scenedesmus sp. ASK22 cultivation using simulated dairy wastewater for nutrient sequestration and biofuel production: insight into fuel properties and their blends
In this study, Scenedesmus sp. ASK22’s growth, lipid productivity and nutrient removal capacity were examined in indoor bench-scale and outdoor pilot-scale experiments using different culture media. The possibility of producing biodiesel from Scenedesmus sp. ASK22 was explored, and the physicochemical parameters of the biodiesel produced were compared to those of Indian petro-diesel. The findings revealed that in an indoor bench-scale culture, the maximal biomass concentration can approach 3.44 g L−1, when compared to the outdoor pilot-scale (2.09 g L−1), using nutrients supplemented simulated dairy effluent (NSDE) as a culture medium. Moreover, as compared to the BG11 medium, the cost of NSDE medium was ~3–4.7-fold lower. Maximum N-NO3−1, P-PO4−3 and chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal efficiency obtained in indoor culture conditions was 99.19%, 95.78% and 95.00%, respectively, compared to that of 95.10%, 84.87% and 92.50%, respectively, for outdoor conditions using NSDE as Scenedesmus sp. ASK22 culture medium. C16/C18 methyl esters make up most of the Scenedesmus sp. ASK22–derived biodiesel. Finally, the qualities of the produced biodiesel and blends were within the approved biodiesel standard specification, showing that Scenedesmus sp. ASK22 culture in dairy effluent has a lot of potential for scaling up for high-quality biodiesel production and dairy effluent treatment. The results demonstrated the potential of Scenedesmus sp. ASK22 to become feedstock of an integrated wastewater treatment and superior quality biodiesel production. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Chemical properties of the oil of five genotypes of Jatropha curcas L., in Colombia [Propiedades químicas del aceite de cinco genotipos de Jatropha curcas L., en Colombia]
Introduction. Jatropha curcas L. (JC) is a multipurpose species with biological, pharmacological, and industrial applications. Its oil is recognized by the dominant composition of oleic-linoleic fatty acids that make it suitable as biofuel in internal combustion engines, without making major changes to the engine design. Objective. To identify in the oil of five JC genotypes in Colombia the cetane, peroxide, iodine, the acidity value, the calorific value indixes and to verify if they comply with standards for biodiesel production. Materials and methods. An experiment was carried out in Espinal, Colombia, in a randomized complete block design with five treatments and three repetitions. The treatments consisted of five JC genotypes. The fruit from the fifth harvest in 2015 was used. Five fatty acids (oleic, linoleic, linolenic, palmitic, and stearic) and five chemical properties (cetane index, acidity, peroxide, iodine, and calorific value) were determined from the oil. Results. The oil from the five JC genotypes evaluated in Colombia presented a lipid profile with a predominance of monounsaturated (oleic C18: 1) and polyunsaturated (linoleic C18: 2) fatty acids. The JC genotypes evaluated in Colombia presented a low cetane, peroxide, and iodine indexes, low acidity, and high calorific value. Conclusions. The properties of cetane and iodine indexes, of the genotypes evaluated complied with the specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and the European Norm for biofuel production, so they are classified as appropriate raw material for biofuel production. Agronomía Mesoamericana

Selective Hydrogenation of Naphthalene to Decalin Over Surface-Engineered α-MoC Based on Synergy between Pd Doping and Mo Vacancy Generation
Although the hydrogenation of aromatics is important for the processing of fossil fuels and biofuels, it typically requires costly (e.g., noble metal-based) catalysts and exhibits unsatisfactory selectivity. Herein, flake-like nanocrystalline molybdenum carbide (α-MoC) is surface-engineered via Pd doping, and the synergy between the in-situ generated Mo vacancies and doped Pd species is shown to promote the selective hydrogenation of naphthalene to decalin. Experimental and theoretical evidence reveal that this enhanced performance is due to the optimization of naphthalene adsorption energy and the establishment of a unique surface structure due to (i) surface environment modulation, (ii) the adjustment of electron density around Mo atoms, and (iii) the change in the strength of Mo-H bonding caused by d-band center optimization. Benefiting from the unique surface structure, the obtained optimum 0.5% Pd-α-MoC catalyst exhibits excellent performance. The developed strategy is successfully used to fabricate other noble metal (Pt, Ru)-doped α-MoC catalysts, thus holding promise as a universal method for the rational design of high-performance metal carbide-based hydrogenation catalysts. Wiley-VCH GmbH

Hydrophobicity in nanocatalysis
Nanocatalysts are usually used in the synthesis of petrochemical products, fine chemicals, biofuel production, and automotive exhaust catalysis. Due to high activity and stability, recyclability, and cost-effectiveness, nanocatalysts are a key area in green chemistry. On the other hand, water as a common by-product or undesired element in a range of nanocatalyzed processes may be promoting the deactivation of catalytic systems. The advancement in the field of hydrophobicity in nanocatalysis could relatively solves these problems and improves the efficiency and recyclability of nanocatalysts. Some recent developments in the synthesis of novel nanocatalysts with tunable hydrophilic-hydrophobic character have been reviewed in this article and followed by highlighting their use in catalyzing several processes such as glycerolysis, Fenton, oxidation, reduction,ketalization, and hydrodesulfurization. Zeolites, carbon materials, modified silicas, surfactant-ligands, and polymers are the basic components in the controlling hydrophobicity of new nanocatalysts. Various characterization methods such as N2 adsorption-desorption, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and contact angle measurement are critical in the understanding of hydrophobicity of materials. Also, in this review, it has been shown that how the hydrophobicity of nanocatalyst is affected by its structure, textural properties, and surface acidity, and discuss the important factors in designing catalysts with high efficiency and recyclability. It is useful for chemists and chemical engineers who are concerned with designing novel types of nanocatalysts with high activity and recyclability for environmentally friendly applications. Techno-Press, Ltd.

Sustainable biofuel production from non-edible oils utilizing modified montmorillonite based porous clay heterostructures
Surface modification was performed for montmorillonite clay by grafting phenyl triethoxy silane moiety followed by sulfonation to obtain the heterogeneous acidic catalyst. The prepared catalyst was recognized using numerous analytical procedures. FTIR spectra inspected the functional groups of the original clay and gave an insight view on the sulfonated clay. XRD provided information on sulfonation of original clay by the shifting of signals at 2θ at 18.5°, 26.55°, and 61.89° peaks to 17.8° (003), 25.5° (003). TPD profile showed the presence of different acidic sites on the surfaces of the studied compounds identified as weak, moderate, and strong types; further, the sulfonation step generated high intensity of the strong acidic sites on the clay surface. Surface area analysis showed that the introduction of sulfonate moieties within the clay framework crowded the pores and decreased their effective area and volume to 66.31 m2/g and 0.11 cm3/g. TGA identification indicated that the introduction of sulfonate groups within the clay framework increased its thermal stability by up to 600°C, due to the hydrogen bonding between the hydroxyl groups of clay and sulfonate groups. The analyses pointed out the successful grafting and sulfonation on the clay. The prepared catalyst was employed during catalytic conversion of used cooking oil and Jatropha oil into their corresponding biofuels. B10 blends of Jatropha oil and used cooking oil by petroleum Jet A-1 have exhibited densities at 0.8037 and 0.8040 g/cm3, while flashpoints were 46°C and 46°C, also the freeze points were also identical at −54 oC. The yield % of Jatropha oil and used cook oil biofuels using the optimum catalyst ratio (0.8% by weight) were 95% and 86%. The biofuels and their blend specifications were measured and compared using the fossil diesel Jet A-1. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

One-step catalytic pyrolysis of pre-treated rice straw to biofuel over waste-extracted Ni–H3PW12O40 activated nano-catalyst
Alternative, renewable and carbon-neutral fuels are an urgent requirement. Pyrolysis has received the most attention in the conversion of biomass into fuel. The main disadvantages of chemical and physical properties of pyrolysis crude bio-oil include its high oxygen content and acidity. Catalytic fast pyrolysis can overcome this problem. Rice straw is an abundant biomass residual that can be of environmental negative impact and is not of proper use. Therefore, this research work introduces the use of this residual in the production of fuel sources by one-step catalytic pyrolysis with the reusability of the employed catalyst. A waste extraction catalyst modified with acidic and nickel sites has been prepared and was utilised for the proposed target in this study. The removal of silica, lignin and minerals by treatment of the rice straw with KOH and then HNO3 in a green terminated process improved the catalytic biomass conversion from 83% to 96% at a catalyst dose of 5%, at 250°C. The pre-treatment of the rice straw enables the reusability of the catalyst in direct catalytic pyrolysis where the employed catalyst exhibits good stability in four consecutive runs. The used KOH and HNO3 were neutralised by mixing to produce KNO3 as a valuable fertiliser. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Characteristic analysis of bio-oil from penicillin fermentation residue by catalytic pyrolysis
The hazardous waste penicillin fermentation residue (PR) is a huge hazard to the environment. The bio-oil produced by the pyrolysis of the penicillin fermentation residue has the potential to become a biofuel in the future. This paper studied the pyrolysis characteristics of PR at 400°C ∼700°C. According to the weight loss and weight loss rate of PR, the whole process of pyrolysis can be divided into three stages for analysis: dehydration and volatilization, initial pyrolysis, and pyrolytic char formation. The experimental results showed that the yield of the liquid phase is the highest (33.11%) at 600°C. GC-MS analysis results showed that high temperature is beneficial to reduce the generation of oxygenated hydrocarbons (73%∼31%) and the yield of nitrogenous compounds gradually increased (19%∼43%); the yield of hydrocarbons was low in 400°C∼600°C pyrolysis (2%∼5%) but significantly increased around 700°C (22%). In the temperature range of 400°C to 700°C, the proportion of C5-C13 in bio-oil gradually increased (26%-64%), and the proportion of C14-C22 gradually decreased (47%-16%). The catalyst can increase the proportion of hydrocarbons in the bio-oil component. And the Fe2O3/HZSM-5 mixed catalyst has a significant reduction effect on oxygen-containing hydrocarbons and nitrogen-containing compounds. The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Fabrication of silicotungstic acid immobilized on Ce-based MOF and embedded in Zr-based MOF matrix for green fatty acid esterification
In the present study, a facile solvothermal method was used for the synthesis of silicotungstic acid (HSiW) immobilized on Ce-based metal organic framework (Ce-BDC) and embedded in Zr-based metal-organic framework (UiO-66(Zr)) composite catalyst, namely, Ce-BDC@HSiW@UiO-66 for the production of biodiesel through green fatty acid esterification. The obtained hybrids were characterized by various characterization technologies, including Fourier transform infrared, X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, N2 physisorption, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and temperature-programmed desorption of NH3 (NH3-TPD) analysis. The characterization analyses showed that the hybrids have been successfully synthesized. Also, the volume and pore size of UiO-66(Zr) were changed by introducing HSiW@Ce-BDC, and the resulting Ce-BDC@HSiW@UiO-66 possessed the mesoporous structure and relatively high surface area. Simultaneously, the NH3-TPD analysis of Ce-BDC@HSiW@UiO-66 reveals that the acid strength was increased in comparison with HSiW@Ce-BDC. In addition, the composite Ce-BDC@HSiW@UiO-66 demonstrated high catalytic activity, and the oleic acid esterification gave 81.5% conversion at optimum conditions of 0.2 g catalysts, 1:30 oleic acid to methanol molar ratio at 130°C for 4 h. More interestingly, after six recycling cycles, the reduction in the conversion rate was only 4.6%, indicating that Ce-BDC@HSiW@UiO-66 has excellent reusability. Our study provides an effective approach to synthesize multifunctional hybrids for green biofuel production. Qiuyun Zhang et al., published by De Gruyter.

Hydrogen economy and storage by nanoporous microalgae diatom: Special emphasis on designing photobioreactors
Storing multiple energy forms from microalgae is not only facile but also lowers the cost of culturing the microalgae. Among many microalgae, diatoms are microscopic glass menageries which are responsible for converting stored lipids and biomass into hydrogen, besides fixing 25% of global CO2. Besides this their silica frustules are also nature's naturally available bionanomaterials which have immense applications in nanotechnology for hydrogen production and other energy storage. The diatom frustules get hybridized with various chemical and biological components to generate or store hydrogen in various fuel cells. In laboratory these live diatoms can be allowed to culture in various designed solar panel photobioreactors better known as diatom solar panels for high and low value-added products essentially biofuel and fucoxanthin. The present review thus discusses about possible scope and approaches to produce hydrogen from live diatom and as well as from its biomass in specially designed photobioreactors. This truly has economic aspects of hydrogen production from diatoms in comparison to other microalgae which needs to be explored for its wide applications due to its robustness and abundance occurrence. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Progress in bioelectronic systems based on conjugated polymers [共轭聚合物生物电子体系研究进展]
Conjugated polymers exhibit excellent photoelectric properties due to their special electron delocalization effect. At the same time, the rich skeleton structures, adjustable energy band and easy design and modification make this kind of materials not only have extensive research and application in light-emitting diodes, field-effect transistors and organic solar cells, but also play important roles in biological imaging, biosensors, disease diagnosis and therapy. This paper reviews the construction and application of bioelectronic systems based on water-soluble conjugated polymers in recent years, and mainly introduces the latest progress in photosynthesis, biofuel cells, biophotovoltaics and bioelectrocatalysis.

The oleaginous yeast Pichia manshurica isolated from Lansium domesticum fruit in Thailand and its fatty acid composition of single cell oil
Oleaginous microbes can accumulate intracellular lipids or single cell oils (SCOs) in quantities higher than 20% of their biomass. They can be a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels, biofuels, and oleochemicals. Studies concerning efficient oleaginous yeasts isolated from the natural environments remain scarce. Therefore, this study isolated and screened for efficient oleaginous yeasts from the surfaces of longkong fruit (Lansium domesticum) samples in Thailand. Their intracellular SCOs were extracted using an ultrasonic-assisted extraction (UAE) method and quantitatively analyzed. The SCO-accumulating yeasts (produce the amount of SCOs <20 % of their biomass) genetically identified were Candida jaroonii, Meyerozyma caribbica, Kodamaea ohmeri, and Pichia sp., while the oleaginous yeasts (produce the amount of SCOs >20% of their biomass) identified were Pichia manshurica and Hanseniaspora opuntiae. Several isolated yeasts were designated as rare oleaginous microbes. The P. manshurica strain Y2 was considered as the most effective oleaginous yeast with a SCO content of 43.03% (w/w). The fatty acids in the accumulated SCO of this strain were analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) that consisted of palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, and palmitoleic acids. These fatty acids could be further applied in the production of third-generation biodiesel, cocoa butter equivalents, and related high-value oleochemicals., Society for Indonesian Biodiversity. All rights reserved.

Facile Synthesis of Silane-Modified Mixed Metal Oxide as Catalyst in Transesterification Processes
The fast depletion of fossil fuels has attracted researchers worldwide to explore alternative biofuels, such as biodiesel. In general, the production of biodiesel is carried out via transesterification processes of vegetable oil with the presence of a suitable catalyst. A mixed metal oxide has shown to be a very attractive heterogeneous catalyst with a high performance. Most of the mixed metal oxide is made by using the general wetness impregnation method. A simple route to synthesize silane-modified mixed metal oxide (CaO-CuO/C6) catalysts has been successfully developed. A fluorocarbon surfactant and triblock copolymers (EO)106 (PO)70 (EO)106 were used to prevent the crystal agglomeration of carbonate salts (CaCO3-CuCO3) as the precursor to form CaO-CuO with a definite size and morphology. The materials show high potency as a catalyst in the transesterification process to produce biodiesel. The calcined co-precipitation product has a high crystallinity form, as confirmed by the XRD analysis. The synthesized catalyst was characterized using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX). The mechanism of surface modification and the effects of the catalytic activity were also discussed. The biodiesel purity of the final product was analyzed by gas chromatography. The optimum biodiesel yield was 90.17% using the modified mixed metal oxide CaO-CuO/C6. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Environment-friendly deoxygenation of non-edible Ceiba oil to liquid hydrocarbon biofuel: process parameters and optimization study
Non-edible Ceiba oil has the potential to be a sustainable biofuel resource in tropical countries that can replace a portion of today’s fossil fuels. Catalytic deoxygenation of the Ceiba oil (high O/C ratio) was conducted to produce hydrocarbon biofuel (high H/C ratio) over NiO-CaO5/SiO2-Al2O3 catalyst with aims of high diesel selectivity and catalyst reusability. In the present study, response surface methodology (RSM) technique with Box-Behnken experimental designs (BBD) was used to evaluate and optimize liquid hydrocarbon yield by considering the following deoxygenation parameters: catalyst loading (1–9 wt. %), reaction temperature (300–380 °C) and reaction time (30–180 min). According to the RSM results, the maximum yield for liquid hydrocarbon n-(C8–C20) was found to be 77% at 340 °C within 105 min and 5 wt. % catalyst loading. In addition, the deoxygenation model showed that the catalyst loading-reaction time interaction has a major impact on the deoxygenation activity. Based on the product analysis, oxygenated species from Ceiba oil were successfully removed in the form of CO2/CO via decarboxylation/decarbonylation (deCOx) pathways. The NiO-CaO5/SiO2-Al2O3 catalyst rendered stable reusability for five consecutive runs with liquid hydrocarbon yield within the range of 66–75% with n-(C15 + C17) selectivity of 64–72%. Despite this, coke deposition was observed after several times of catalyst usage, which is due to the high deoxygenation temperature (&gt; 300 °C) that resulted in unfavourable polymerization side reaction., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Efficient and Selective Hydrogenation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-Dimethylfuran Over a Non-noble CoNCx/NiFeO Catalyst
Currently, there is tremendous interest in the discovery of efficient and low-cost catalysts for the selective hydrogenation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to the biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF). In this study, a CoNCx/NiFeO catalyst was synthesized by the adsorption of cobalt (II) phthalocyanine (CoPc) on ultrathin NiFe-layered double hydroxide nanosheets (NiFe-LDH), followed by mild pyrolysis of the resulting CoPc/NiFe-LDH composite at 550 °C under N2 for 5 h. XRD, TEM and XPS showed CoNCx/NiFeO to contain CoOx/Co0 and Ni0 nanoparticles on a NiFe-mixed metal oxide support. CoNCx/NiFeO showed very high initial activity and selectivity for the hydrogenation of HMF to DMF in tetrahydrofuran (THF) under mild reaction conditions (180 °C, 1.0 MPa H2, 6.0 h), evidenced by a 99.8% HMF conversion and 94.3% DMF selectivity. Reaction pathways for the conversion of HMF to DMF over CoNCx/NiFeO were revealed by monitoring the intermediates formed at different stages of the reaction. Graphical Abstract: In this study, a CoNCx/NiFeO catalyst was synthesized by the adsorption of cobalt (II) phthalocyanine (CoPc) on ultrathin NiFe-layered double hydroxide nanosheets (NiFe-LDH), which showed very high initial activity and selectivity for the hydrogenation of HMF to DMF. [Figure not available: see fulltext.], The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

MgO(111) Nanocatalyst for Biomass Conversion: A Study of Carbon Coating Effects on Catalyst Faceting and Performance
Solid base metal oxide catalysts such as MgO offer utility in a wide variety of syntheses from pharmaceuticals to fuels. The (111) facet of MgO shows enhanced, unique properties relative to the other facets. Carbon coatings have emerged as a promising modification to impart metal oxide catalyst stability. Here, we report the synthesis, characterization, and catalytic properties of commercial MgO, MgO(111), and carbon coated derivatives thereof for 2-pentanone condensation. The dimer and trimer products of this reaction can be used as precursors for biofuels upon oxygen removal and thus have relevance in environmental sustainability. MgO(111) maintained impressive selectivity towards the dimer product after carbon coating, whereas the other catalysts experienced a decrease in conversion and selectivity as a consequence of the carbon coating. Our findings highlight the catalytic efficacy of MgO(111), provide insight into carbon coating for catalyst stability, and pave the way for continued mechanistic investigations. Graphical Abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Effects of Fe2O3, MnO2, MgO and ZnO additives on lipid and biodiesel production from microalgae
At present, the major body of research is focused on weaning the world from fossil fuels. The problem is that the world is running out of fossil fuel. Therefore, an alternative source must be identified. The biofuels are promising alternatives. In the case of petrodiesel, a promising alternative is biodiesel production from algae. The ability of microalgae to generate large quantities of lipids with a fast growth rate made them superior biodiesel producers. An important factor of determining optimal microalgal activity is the bioresponse to changes in trace metal concentration and quantity. The effects of the addition of the following chemicals were investigated: ferric oxide (Fe2O3) with a concentration of 1.2 mg/L, manganese dioxide (MnO2) with a concentration of 1 mg/L, magnesium oxide (MgO) with a concentration of 7.3 mg/L, and zinc oxide (ZnO) with a concentration of 5 mg/L. Further treatment is a mixture of all additives with the same listed concentrations. According to the results of this study, it was found that iron, manganese, magnesium, and zinc concentration have great influence on the algal growth and lipid production. Furthermore, the mixture of all additives yielded the highest lipid and, therefore, the highest biodiesel production among all treatments. 2022 National Information and Documentation Center (NIDOC).

Application of helium-neon red laser for increasing biohydrogen production from anaerobic digestion of biowastes
Biohydrogen has significant feasibility since biological processes are much less energy intensive compared with electrolysis and thermo-chemical processes. It is widely recognized that considerable amounts of hydrogen (H2) can be produced from renewable resources without using energy from fossil fuels. Biological processes and bacterial fermentation are considered as the most environmentally friendly alternatives for satisfying future hydrogen demand. Biohydrogen production from agricultural and agro-industrial solid waste and wastewater is considered as highly advantageous as materials of this kind are abundant, cheap and biodegradable. The combustion of H2 with oxygen produces water as its only product: Unlike other fuels, the combustion of H2 does not produce carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), hydrocarbons or particulate matter (PM). Therefore, hydrogen is an environmentally friendly fuel where endeavors focus on producing specially designed internal combustion engines that can use H2 as fuel. The results showed that laser irradiated inoculum increased biohydrogen production by 1.2 times of the control. Therefore, in this research, it was hypothesized that exposing purple non-sulfur bacterial (PNSB) mix consortium to Helium-Neon red laser for 2 hours increased cell activity and consequently the biohydrogen production from food wastes through photo-fermentation process. National Information and Documentation Center (NIDOC).

Biodiesel production from Custard apple seeds and Euglena Sanguinea using CaO nano-catalyst
This short communication investigated biodiesel production from Euglena Sanguinea microalgae and custard apple using nano CaO as a heterogeneous catalyst. Different solvents were used to extract the oil at a fixed speed, time, and temperature for the samples to estimate the optimized oil yield%. The catalyst was synthesized by sol gel method in nano-scale. It was further characterized by FTIR spectroscopy, SEM, and XRD. The algal oil was pre-treated and trans-esterified with a catalyst to produce alkyl esters. The optimized process variables were determined using response surface methodology by varying parameters such as methanol to oil ratio and catalyst weight% for algal bio-oil and MeOH to oil ratio, time, and catalyst weight% for seed oil. The GC–MS was done to characterize the presence of biodiesel. Kinetic studies were done for the optimized condition for the algal oil and seed oil and it follows the pseudo-first order reaction. 

Mesoporous SrTiO3 perovskite as a heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel production: Experimental and DFT studies
A pure mesoporous SrTiO3 with a honeycomb pore structure is synthesized by the sol-gel method and applied to catalyze transesterification of palm oil with methanol for the biodiesel production. The catalyst is characterized by XRD, CO2/NH3-TPD, N2 adsorption-desorption, SEM-EDX, Raman and XPS to reveal its catalytic performances. The highest FAME yield of 93.14% is achieved in transesterification with the molar ratio of methanol to oil of 15:1 and catalyst concentration of 6 wt% at 170 C for 3 h. Besides, the catalyst is highly tolerant of FFAs and moisture, where the FAME yields of 83.80% and 86.50% are achieved even with the oleic acid and water addition of 10 wt% and 5 wt%. Meanwhile, the catalyst is found to be an effective catalyst for the simultaneous esterification and transesterification. The molecular simulation results show that the Ti sites are more easily attacked by FFAs and the Sr active sites are thus retained for the adsorption of methanol to catalyze transesterification, which explains the bifunctionality of the catalyst. 

Biodiesel production and comparison using commercial lipase and chemical catalyst from Cassia auriculata oil
In this present investigation, Cassia auriculata was explored as a feedstock for production of biodiesel. Transesterification reaction was performed by both enzyme (lipase) and chemical (potassium hydroxide) catalyst with diverse acyl acceptors such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, n-propanol, butanol, n- butanol, and finally their biodiesel yield were also recorded. Process optimization was performed by both one factor at a time method and response surface method. The maximal biodiesel yield of 92% (weight/weight) was obtained at the following optimal conditions: Oil:Methanol molar ratio of 1:6 (moles/moles), the lipase concentration of 2% (weight/weight), at 35 ​°C and 120 ​min. The highest biodiesel yield from Cassia auriculata oil was occurred with excess methanol that aids the equilibrium shift in the forward direction. The kinetics of the transesterification reaction was investigated under optimal conditions and the activation energy was found to be 14.91 ​kJ/mol. Simultaneously Gas Chromatography – Mass Spectroscopy was also carried out for the biodiesel produced from Cassia auriculata and the same has been reported. The GC analysis declares the existence of fatty acid esters like hexadecanoic acid methyl ester, methyl stearate and the peak with retention time 12.8 ​min signifies the evidence of hexadecanoic acid methyl ester with 28% of yield content. This investigation also evaluated the biodiesel quality produced from lipase-transesterified Cassia auriculata oil based on fuel properties. Biodiesel properties Flash Point (FC), Pour Point (PP) and kinematic viscosity were compared with American (ASTM 6751) and European (EN 14214) Standards. Cassia auriculata oil had PP 6.7 ​°C and Kinematic viscosity (813 ​kg/m3) that agreed with both the standards. Thus this study showed that Cassia auriculata oil could be a better fuel alternative with further improvement of fuel properties. Indian Chemical Society

Catalytic biofuel production over 3D macro-structured cheese-like Mn-promoted TiO2 isotype: Mn-catalyzed microwave-combustion design
The efficient 3D cheese like Mn-doped TiO2 catalyst was synthesized via Mn-catalyzed microwave-induced combustion for biodiesel production. The characterizations of Mn (0, 2, 4, and 6 at.%)-doped TiO2 were performed by XRD, FESEM, EDX, TEM, BET-BJH, and TPD-NH3 analyses. To compare the Mn (0 and 4 at.%)-doped TiO2 was also synthesized using muffle combustion. FESEM images and 3D surface analyses exhibited the cheese-like architecture assembled with nanosheets as well as by large uniform pores. Moreover, it showed that Mn played three significant roles. First, Mn promoted the rutile phase. Second, according to TPD-NH3 results, Mn dopant boosted acid sites, and acid density of catalyst as the number of acid sites was 35.534, and 42.777 µmol/g and acid density were 0.331, and 0.641 µmol/m2 for undoped TiO2 and 4at. % Mn-doped TiO2, respectively. Third, Mn acted as a catalyzer in combustion reaction because Mn made the synthesis duration shorter, and consequently, the flow rate of exhaust gases increased (154.2 mol gas/min). Experimental results showed that biodiesel conversion was respectively about 42.8%, 62.6%, 72.8%, and 78.4% for Mn(0)Ti(MF), Mn(0)Ti(MW), Mn(0)Ti(MF), Mn(4)Ti(MW) during 2.5 h, indicating catalyst property promotion by Mn and its catalyzing role in combustion process. The selected Mn(4)Ti(MW) showed 89.1% conversion during 4 h, and conversion reduced only 1% after 6 successive runs. 

Integrated polylactic acid and biodiesel production from food waste: Process synthesis and economics
In this study, techno-economic analysis of the sustainable production of polylactic acid (PLA) and biodiesel from Food Waste (FW), with a plant capacity of 50 tons/day, was investigated. In addition, FW of four countries (China, India, Brazil, and the USA) with different compositions of water, protein, lipid and carbohydrate were proposed. Each country has different PLA production rates based on carbohydrate and biodiesel production based on fat. In this study, the FW composition of the USA shows better economic feasibility than other countries. The actual minimum selling price is 6.53 (China), 5.35 (India), 4.75 (Brazil), and 4.29 (US) $/kg. The uncertainty of the MSP was analyzed based on various input limits. The sensitivity analysis was conducted based on biodiesel-selling price, PLA-selling price, income tax, and project lifetime on techno-economic analysis parameters, such as ROI, payback period, IRR and NPV were investigated. 

Influence of synthesized catalyst on the pyrolytic conversion of waste oils into renewable biofuel: Synthesis and performance
The depletion of fossil fuel resources and the universal warming phenomenon gained the consideration of researchers to improve renewable and eco-friendly energy sources. Numerous routes were currently employed conventionally in the production of biofuels. The commercial production of biodiesel is performed catalytically either by transesterification using methanol to form fatty acid methyl esters or by pyrolysis using acidic or alkaline solid catalysts. Catalytic pyrolysis of waste edible oils was used as a resource for the production of biodiesel using synthetic chemically modified alumina catalyst. The catalyst was synthesized based on chemical modification of ZSM-5 platform by organic precursor followed by sulphonation, to yield highly effective acidic heterogeneous catalyst. The synthetic catalyst was characterized using FTIR, XRD, TPD, and TGA analysis to determine its chemical structure. Fuel properties, carbon dioxide emission, brake specific fuel consumption (BSFC), exhaust gas temperature (EGT), and brake thermal efficiency (BTE) properties of the obtained biodiesel and its blends with petroleum diesel were determined to investigate the efficiency of the catalyst and the performance of the biodiesel. The chemical composition of the biodiesel produced was the key factor of the efficiency of the different biodiesel-petroleum diesel performance as an economic and eco-friendly alternative energy source.

Optimization of ZnO incorporation to αFe2O3 nanoparticles as an efficient catalyst for biodiesel production in a sonoreactor: Application on the CI engine
Pure αFe2O3 and αFe2O3 1-x/ZnO x (x = 0, 40 and 80 wt%) nanoparticles were synthesized using the sol-gel method and, then, tested for biodiesel production from canola oil with the sonochemical process. Characterization of nanocatalysts was carried out using XRD, BET-BJH, SEM, EDX, TEM, TGA, CO2-TPD, and Raman spectroscopy analyses. The results of CO2-TPD and Raman confirmed that the dispersion of ZnO is well incorporated in the structure of αFe2O3, increasing the basicity of the nanocatalyst via generating oxygen vacancy. The response surface methodology (RSM) and Box behnken design (BBD) were utilized to analyze the effect of parameters. The best incorporation of ZnO on catalytic performance was observed in x = 47.24 wt%. Besides, the size and shape of the optimized nanocatalyst were 40 nm and needle/hexagonal, respectively. The optimization of the reaction demonstrated the maximum biodiesel yield of 94.21%. Reusability investigation of the optimum catalysts even after seven consecutive cycles revealed that αFe2O3/ZnO nanoparticles have higher catalytic performance and are more stable than pure αFe2O3. The results of the engine test indicate that the rich oxygen amount of canola biodiesel leads to considerable improvements in fuel combustion conditions, particularly in B30 (30% biodiesel-70% diesel). 

Comparison of biodiesel production using a novel porous Zn/Al/Co complex oxide prepared from different methods: Physicochemical properties, reaction kinetic and thermodynamic studies
The use of heterogeneous catalysts in the transesterification reaction is an eco-friendly and cost-effective approach for biodiesel production as compared to the homogeneous catalyst-based processes. In this study, a heterogeneous cobalt doping Zn/Al complex oxide was prepared by a simple birch-templating method, and successfully applied to the transesterification of jatropha oil with methanol. The catalyst had strong diffraction peaks of ZnAl2O4 spinel crystal with substitutional doping of amorphous cobalt atom. It had a tendency to achieve a high base strength whilst increasing the specific surface area in the presence of cobalt. By contrast to the impregnation and coprecipitation methods, the crystalline particles from templating method were uniformly distributed on the catalyst surface, thus forming a well-defined tiled network with large amounts of grain-free pores. The exposure of available activity sites resulted in a biodiesel yield of 91.4%. After used several times and recycled, the regenerated catalyst also exhibited good catalytic potency without obvious deactivation. The transesterification kinetics satisfied the Pseudo first order model that controlled by the reaction temperature and catalyst dosage. The thermodynamic parameters of ΔH of 16.7 kJ/mol, ΔS of −284.6 J/mol/K, and ΔG of 140.0 kJ/mol suggested an endothermic, endergonic, and non-spontaneous nature of the reaction. 

Enhancement of hydrocarbons and phenols in catalytic pyrolysis bio-oil by employing aluminum hydroxide nanoparticle based spent adsorbent derived catalysts
The present study investigated the effects of metal loaded spent adsorbent as catalyst for the catalytic pyrolysis of pine needle biomass. Metal active sites (Ni, Fe, Cu, Zn and Mo) were introduced in alumina matrix by wet impregnation process. Non-catalytic and catalytic semi-batch pyrolysis study was carried out at conditions: 550 °C temperature, 50 °C min−1 heating rate and 200 mL min−1 N2 flow rate. Results indicated significant deoxygenation potential 3.33–35.57% of the applied catalysts towards oxygenated compounds by converting them into their corresponding hydrocarbon (27.70–36.41%) and phenolic (40.41–46.04%) derivatives. Among all the catalysts, Ni/Al and Fe/Al produced the highest quality bio-oil by enriching their carbon content to 62.93 and 60.14% and heating value to 31.41 and 26.86 MJ kg−1, respectively. Moreover, significant enhancement in their hydrocarbons (36.41 and 36.01% for Ni/Al and Fe/Al, respectively) and phenolic compounds (46.04 and 41.67% for Ni/Al and Fe/Al, respectively) from 9.15% hydrocarbons and 13.32% phenols in non-catalytic bio-oil had also been observed. Presence of CO and CO2 in the evolved gases also represented the occurrence of deoxygenation reactions during catalytic breakdown. Hydrocarbon and phenol-rich bio-oil can find its application either as a replacement for petroleum fuel or an industrial-grade chemical. Thus, catalysts derived from spent aluminum hydroxide nanoparticle adsorbent can act as an effective substitute for the currently utilized high-cost catalysts in catalytic pyrolysis of biomass. 

Enzymatic lipase-based methyl esterified Citrullus colocynthis L. biodiesel for improved combustion, performance and emission characteristics
The recent advancement of finding an alternative to fossil fuel was attempted on the seeds of Citrullus colocynthis L. for producing biofuel. The oil source for biofuel was taken to do the detailed study and experimental work. From the experimental work, the most important characteristics, which are necessary to identify the performance and combustion, the quality of the fuel used in an engine. The engine taken for the fuel study was a single cylinder, four stroke, water cooled DI engine. All tests were conducted at different engine speeds as 1800 rpm, 2000 rpm, 2200 rpm. 2400 rpm and 2800 rpm. The Brake Thermal Efficiency (BTE), Brake Specific Fuel Consumption (BSFC), and Brake Power (BP) reflects the combustion status within the engine and the emission CO, CO2, NOX, and HC gives the emission tendency of the fuel used that has to be reduced. The naturally plentiful plant of citrullus coloncynthis L. seeds were used for the biodiesel production. Four different fuel combinations were tried in the engine as D100 (Pure diesel), CC10 (Citrullus coloncynthis biofuel 10% + Diesel 90%), CC20 (Citrullus coloncynthis biofuel 20% + Diesel 80%) and CC30 (Citrullus coloncynthis biofuel 30% + Diesel 70%). From the results, it is evident that the use of CC Biofuel with 10% provides little lower value of BTE and BP and slightly higher BSFC than the pure diesel results. Considering the emission nature, it highly reduced the emission of CO and HC except NOX and CO2. 

Blending and emission characteristics of biogasoline produced using CaO/SBA-15 catalyst by cracking used cooking oil
The aim of this work is to crack the used cooking oil in a fixed bed cracking unit using impregnated CaO/SBA-15 catalyst to yield liquid hydrocarbons with high % of biogasoline (BioG)fraction. Further, to investigate the capacity of the biogasoline fraction as well as the bio gasoline blends with fossil gasoline in increasing its efficiency. The porous morphology, pore distribution and surface area, elemental composition and phase formation of catalysts were analysed by Scanning electron Microscopy, Surface area analyser and X-ray diffraction techniques. All the synthesized materials were crystalline and least changes were observed with incorporation of CaO on SBA-15. The morphology of the materials were as expected without much agglomeration. SBA-15 exhibited fair surface area of around 1300 m2/g and discrete pores gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC–MS). Among the catalysts, the composite material, CaO/SBA-15 (4 wt%) efficiently cracked 97% of used cooking oil into 70% liquid products and 69.7% of biogasoline which was confirmed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS). BioG showed a good Calorific value of 10000 MJ/Kg which was comparable to that of petroleum fuel. Results of the engine test indicated that using biogasoline–gasoline blended fuels, torque output and fuel consumption of the engine increased when compared to gasoline; CO and SO2 emissions decreased largely due to the oxidation, CO2 emission increased because of the improved combustion and NOX emission from bio gasoline blends was low than gasoline. 

Microalgae biomass as a sustainable source for biofuel, biochemical and biobased value-added products: An integrated biorefinery concept
Microalgal biomass has been proved to be a sustainable source for biofuels including bio-oil, biodiesel, bioethanol, biomethane, etc. One of the collateral benefits of integrating the use of microalgal technologies in the industry is microalgae's ability to capture carbon dioxide during the application and biomass production process and consequently reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Although microalgae are a feasible source of biofuel, industrial microalgae applications face energy and cost challenges. To overcome these challenges, researchers have been interested in applying the bio-refinery approach to extract the important components encapsulated in microalgae. This review discusses the key steps of microalgae-based biorefinery including cultivation and harvesting, cell disruption, biofuel and value-added compound extraction along with the detailed technologies associated with each step of biorefinery. This review found that suitable microalgae species are selected based on their carbohydrate, lipid and protein contents and selecting the suitable species are crucial for high-quality biofuel and value-added products production. Microalgae species contain carbohydrates, proteins and lipids in the range of 8% to 69.7%, 5% to 74% and 7% to 65% respectively which proved their ability to be used as a source of value-added commodities in multiple industries including agriculture, animal husbandry, medicine, culinary, and cosmetics. This review suggests that lipid and value-added products from microalgae can be made more economically viable by integrating upstream and downstream processes. Therefore, a systematically integrated genome sequencing and process-scale engineering approach for improving the extraction of lipids and co-products is critical in the development of future microalgal biorefineries. 

Coal gasification fine slags: Investigation of the potential as both microwave adsorbers and catalysts in microwave-induced biomass pyrolysis applications
The coal gasification fine slags (CGFS) are rich in porous carbon and various metal elements (Al, Fe, Ca, Na, K, Mg). In this work, three types of CGFS-based catalysts (CGFS@GSP, CGFS@OMB, and CGFS@TEX) were prepared and used in microwave-induced biomass pyrolysis to investigate the possibility of CGFSs as both microwave absorbing materials and catalysts for synergistic renewable phenols and fuel gas production. The CGFS-based catalysts displayed rough and porous structures, containing a variety of active metals and compounds. Remarkable microwave absorbing ability with higher heating rates than SiC was achieved by the CGFS-based catalysts during biomass pyrolysis. The catalysts showed high activity for biomass pyrolysis under microwave heating conditions, resulted in the increase of gas yield and the decrease of water and bio-oil yields. The bio-oil chemical composition was significantly simplified and was dominated by C3–C10 compounds. Phenols are the dominant component in the produced bio-oil, and the content reached 69.6% and 71.3% using CGFS@OMB and CGFS@TEX as the catalysts. Meanwhile, the gas yield was significant improved by the catalysts at a higher temperature of 650 °C, and the value reached 64.4% using CGFS@OMB as the catalyst with a remarkable hydrogen concentration of 44.9%. 

Assessment of hydrogen and nanoparticles blended biodiesel on the diesel engine performance and emission characteristics
Owing to the greatest need and continuous requirement of the fossil fuel, the immediate search of alternate resources to the petroleum fuel is essential. This research deals with the production and utilization of waste cooking oil biodiesel and nanoparticles blends in the direct ignition engine. The nanoparticles added blends was then reinforced with hydrogen flow while conducting the tests. The fuel blends used for the tests were D100 (pure diesel), B10 (90% diesel + 10% biofuel), B20 (80% diesel + 20% biofuel), D100T10 (pure diesel with 100 ppm nanoparticles), B10TH (90% diesel + 10% biofuel with 100 ppm nanoparticles + 5 L/min of H2) and B20T10 (80% diesel + 20% biofuel with 100 ppm nanoparticles + 5 L/min of H2). While conducting the tests, the hydrogen flow was given at the constant mass flow rate of 10 L/min. The performance and emission measures were keenly calculated from the tests. All tests were conducted at different speeds from 1800 rpm to 2800 rpm. The performance parameters were improved by these nanoparticles and hydrogen together with the pure diesel and also with the biodiesel blends. For example, the power, torque and brake thermal efficiency were improved while the brake specific fuel consumption was decreased. The main objective of reducing the emission of CO, CO2 and other UHC was satisfied whereas the NO emission was slightly increased. 

Isolation, mass cultivation, and biodiesel production potential of marine microalgae identified from Bay of Bengal
In this study, marine microalgae were isolated from the Bay of Bengal, and their biodiesel production potential was investigated. Five different strains of microalgae were identified, viz. Nannochloropsis salina (N. salina), Dunaliella salina (D. salina), Chaetoceros calcitrans (C. calcitrans), Tetraselmis chuii (T. chuii), and Euglena sanguinea (E. sanguinea). Further, these stains were mass cultivated in a 250-L bioreactor to assess their biomass production ability. At the end of the exponential phase, algal biomass was harvested for lipid extraction. The fatty acid profile and physico-chemical properties of the lipids were analyzed. It was observed that a maximum of 27.67wt% of lipid was obtained for N. salina followed by D. salina (22.58 wt%), E. sanguinea (21.88 wt%), T. chuii (20.15 wt%), and C. calcitrans (16.25 wt%). Subsequently, the extracted lipids were subjected to single-step esterification and transesterification process to produce biodiesel by using an acid catalyst. The different parameters influencing the reaction such as catalyst concentration, temperature, methanol to lipid molar ratio, and time were investigated. A maximum biodiesel yield of 97, 94, 96, 92, and 92 wt% were obtained for N. salina, D. salina, C. calcitrans, T. chuii, and E. sanguinea, respectively, at the favorable reaction conditions. The fuel properties of biodiesel were analyzed as per the standard protocol and compared with ASTM D6751 standard., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

PM emissions - assessment of combustion energy transfer with Schizochytrium sp. algal biodiesel and blends in IC engine
The continuous growing demand for fossil fuel puts an enormous pressure on finding a better replacement. This research paper explores the detailed information on the improved production, emission and performance characteristics of the distinct bio-oil derived from the micro algae of Schizochytrium. The algae were grown in the artificial seawater with enough nitrogen supply at the required standard conditions. The lipid growth and production of the bio-oil were monitored closely and measured. Different fuel blends were used at different concentrations as B0 (100% Diesel), B10 (10% schizochytrium biofuel +90% diesel), B20 (20% schizochytrium biofuel +80% diesel) and B30 (30% schizochytrium biofuel +70% diesel). A small single cylinder, four stroke diesel engine was used to conduct the tests. All tests were conducted at different speed conditions of 1200 rpm to 2100 rpm in six intervals. The performance qualities of bio-oil such as CO, NOX, and smoke and CO2 emission along with the performance qualities of brake thermal efficiency and brake specific fuel consumption. Form the results, the Schizochytrium microalgae bio-oil as the bio fuel for diesel engines in the moderate level showed the improved performance by increasing the BTE and reducing the harmful gas emissions except NOX. However, the emission level of NOX was slightly higher than the diesel emitted value. The difference between them was negligible. Elsevier B.V.

Thermal kinetic analysis of mustard biomass with equiatomic iron–nickel catalyst and its predictive modeling
Mustard waste briquettes are commercially used as a fuel for power production in boilers, whereas the thermal kinetics of the biomass plays a vital role in deciding the process parameters. The pyrolysis process converts biomass to value-added products such as biochar, bio-oil, and hydrocarbon gases based on the heating rates and temperature. To enhance the pyrolytic activity of mustard biomass, magnetically separable and reusable FeNi alloy catalyst is investigated. The thermo-conversion properties are studied under variable heating rates with 2 and 10% FeNi particles prepared through a facile chemical reduction technique. Thermal kinetics is computed using Flynn-Wall-Ozawa (FOW) and Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose (KAS) methods. The activation energies calculated using FOW and KAS methods increase with FeNi addition in mustard while the calorific value decreases. The FeNi alloy particles with the spike-like morphology provide better metal-biomass binding resulting in higher activation energy and facilitates the easy decomposition of lignin. The 10% FeNi -mustard shows uniform conversion independent of heating rates, suitable for magnetically recoverable catalytic pyrolysis. Response surface methodology analysis predicts optimum conversion for 10% FeNi added mustard and less significance for the heating rates in concurrence with the experiments. Artificial neural network utilized to predict and validate mass loss for mustard biomass exhibits best fit for the three neural hidden layer and one output layered topology. 

Potential heterogeneous nano-catalyst via integrating hydrothermal carbonization for biodiesel production using waste cooking oil
Hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) provides alternatives technique to produce a nanosize activated carbon from biomass with a high surface area. Herein, this study we prepared empty fruit bunch-based activated carbon (EFBHAC) using HTC technique. The activated carbon was then functionalized with K2CO3 and Cu(NO3)2 to produce bifunctional nano-catalyst for simultaneous esterification-transesterification of waste cooking oil (WCO). The physicochemical properties were performed i.e. N2 sorptions analysis, TPD-CO2/NH3, FESEM, EDX, FTIR and XRD analysis. The results revealed that produced EFBHAC possessed a BET surface area of 4056.17 m2 g−1, with pore volume of 0.827 cm3 g−1 and 5.42 nm of pore diameter resulting from hydrolysis, dehydration decarboxylation, aromatization and re-condensation during HTC process. Impregnation of EFBHAC with K2CO3 and Cu(NO3)2 granted a high amount of basicity and acidity of 9.21 mmol g−1 and 31.41 mmol g−1, respectively, accountable to high biodiesel yield of 97.1%, produced at the optimum condition of 5 wt% of catalyst loading, 12:1 of methanol to oil molar ratio at 70 °C for 2 h. More than 80% of biodiesel was produced after the 5th cycle depicted the good reusability. The transformations from WCO to biodiesel was confirmed via 1H NMR, FTIR and TGA analysis. Fuel properties revealed kinematic viscosity of 3.3 mm2 s−1, cetane number of 51, flash point of 160.5 °C, cloud and pour point of 11 °C and −3 °C, respectively. These results show the excellent potential of waste materials to prepare bifunctional nano-catalysts to produce higher biodiesel yield which has potential to be commercialized. 

State of art of valorising of diverse potential feedstocks for the production of alcohols and ethers: Current changes and perspectives
Alcohols could be the biggest factor for the improvement of world biofuel economy in the present century due to their excellent properties compared to petroleum products. The primary concerns of sustainable alcohol production for meeting the growing energy demand owing to the selection of viable feedstock and this might enhance the opportunities for developing numerous advanced techniques. In this review, the valorization of alcohol production from several production routes has been exposed by covering the traditional routes to the present state of the art technologies. Even though the fossil fuel conversion could be dominant method for methanol production, many recent innovations like photo electrochemical synthesis and electrolysis methods might play vital role in production of renewable methanol in future. There have been several production routes for production of ethanol and among which the fermentation of lignocellulose biomass would be the ultimate choice for large scale shoot up. The greenhouse gas recovery in the form of alcohols through electrochemistry technique and hydrogenation method are the important methods for commercialization of alcohols in future. It is also observed that algae based renewable bio-alcohols is highly influenced by carbohydrate content and sustainable approaches in algae conversion to bio-alcohols would bring greater demand in future market. There is a lack of innovation in higher alcohols production in single process and this could be bounded by combining dehydrogenation and decarboxylation techniques. Finally, this review enlists the opportunities and challenges of existing alcohols production and recommended the possible routes for making significant enhancement in production. 

Production of biodiesel from oleaginous fungal lipid using highly catalytic bimetallic gold-silver core-shell nanoparticle
Aims: This study aims to synthesize, characterize and apply gold–silver core–shell nanoparticles (Au@Ag NPs), a nanocatalyst, to maximize biodiesel production from fungal isolate Fusarium solani (FS12) via a transesterification one-step reaction. Methods and Results: The Au@Ag NPs structure was examined by UV-vis spectrophotometer, transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR). All devices were used to characterize Au@Ag NPs and confirmed successful synthesis of nanoparticles. Fungal lipid was quantitatively determined by sulfo-phospho-vanillin colorimetric method. Among 15 F. solani isolates obtained from rhizospheric soils of the date palm, F. solani (AF12) was chosen as the highly significant producer that accumulates above 20% lipid. The maximum biodiesel yield was 91.28 ± 0.19%, obtained under the optimum reaction conditions of 3% Au@Ag NPs as nanocatalyst concentration, and 1:20 oil to methanol molar ratio at 70℃ for 30 min. HPLC method was applied for monitoring in situ transesterification reaction. FTIR spectroscopy was used in qualitative analysis of biodiesel by verifying the presence of unique characteristic peaks of diagnostic significance. The quality of the biodiesel produced was confirmed by the high purity of fatty acid methyl esters analysis content up to >99%. Conclusions: These findings propose the applicability of F. solani (FS12) as a promising isolate to accumulate lipids and biodiesel production as a feedstock. Significance and Impact of the Study: The link between nanotechnology and fungi. Au@Ag NPs were synthesized at room temperature, which displayed high catalytic activity for in situ transesterification reaction. Catalytic activity appeared at low temperature, mole ratio and short reaction time. Oleaginous fungi are described as easily grown, have short life cycle, are cost-effective, and they utilized various sources of carbon up to waste and a simplified process to develop scale-up production as well, economic value, opposite the usage of vegetable oils which need for large agricultural areas. The Society for Applied Microbiology

Role of Sulfation of Zirconia Catalysts in Vapor Phase Ketonization of Acetic Acid
The effect of the sulfation of zirconia catalysts on their structure, acidity/basicity, and catalytic activity/selectivity toward the ketonization of organic acids is investigated by a combined experimental and computational method. Here, we show that, upon sulfation, zirconia catalysts exhibit a significant increase in their Brønsted and Lewis acid strength, whereas their Lewis basicity is significantly reduced. Such changes in the interplay between acid–base sites result in an improvement of the selectivity toward the ketonization process, although the measured conversion rates show a significant drop. We report a detailed DFT investigation of the putative surface species on sulfated zirconia, including the possible formation of dimeric pyrosulfate (S2O72–) species. Our results show that the formation of such a dimeric system is an endothermic process, with energy barriers ranging between 60.0 and 70.0 kcal mol–1, and which is likely to occur only at high SO42– coverages (4 S/nm2), high temperatures, and dehydrating conditions. Conversely, the formation of monomeric species is expected at lower SO42– coverages, mild temperatures, and in the presence of water, which are the usual conditions experienced during the chemical upgrading of biofuels. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society

Bifunctional Pt-Mo catalyst for: In situ hydrogenation of methyl stearate into alkanes using formic acid as a hydrogen donor
Biofuels have generated considerable interest as a direct substituent for fossil fuels due to the energy crisis and greenhouse effect. In this article, bifunctional Pt-Mo catalyst supported on activated carbon (AC) was fabricated for in situ hydrogenation of methyl stearate to alkanes using small amounts of formic acid (FA) as a hydrogen source. A total yield of 75.3% is obtained under 290 °C for 2 h with a small FA/methyl stearate mole ratio of 3.9. Prolonging the reaction time to 6 h results in a total yield of 100%. The experimental and characterization results indicate that the strong interaction of β-Mo2C and Pt over Pt-Mo/AC catalysts give rise to excellent catalytic performance and that Pt active sites are responsible for FA dehydrogenation and decarbonylation of methyl stearate to heptadecane and Pt-doped β-Mo2C active sites catalyzing hydrodeoxygenation of methyl stearate to octadenane. This catalyst is stable during three recycles and is versatile for various feedstocks. The Royal Society of Chemistry and the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.

Optimizing the production of biodiesel from palm olein (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) using a strong basic anionic resin as a heterogeneous catalyst
In this study, the performance of the Purolite A503S anion exchange resin as a heterogeneous catalyst in the transesterification reaction of palm olein (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) for ethyl biodiesel production was investigated, and the independent variables were optimized based on the maximum conversion to fatty acid ethyl esters. The response surface methodology (RSM) coupled to a factorial design (2³) with a central composite rotatable design (CCRD) was used for optimization. The effects of temperature, catalyst percentage, palm olein:ethanol molar ratio, and their interactions were evaluated. A reaction time of 10 h was established relating conversion versus time, and the stirring speed was determined by assessing the conversion potential ranging from 250 to 1000 rpm. The reactions were performed in a jacketed reactor coupled to a thermostatic bath. The mixtures of triacylglycerols (TAG), diacylglycerols (DAG), monoacylglycerols (MAG), fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE), and ethanol were quantified by high-pressure size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC), and glycerol content was determined by stoichiometry. A second-order model was adjusted to explain the experimental data from the 18 factorial design trials. A conversion of approximately 98.10 % in ethyl esters was obtained from the optimised variables using a 17.6 % catalyst, palm olein:ethanol molar ratio of 1:12.85 at 49.4 °C. Despite the long reaction time, the Purolite A503S resin is a potential heterogeneous catalyst in transesterification reactions. Elsevier B.V.

A review on nano-catalysts and biochar-based catalysts for biofuel production
Necessity and exploitation of fossil fuels is unstoppable in meeting humanity's needs despite being a small and scarce resource. The use of different renewable feedstock materials are vital in the satisfaction of large-scale demand for renewable energy sources without creating environmental problems in order to satisfy energy demand. In this context we covered the production of biofuels from a variety of feedstocks using pyrolysis, direct blending, micro-emulsion, trans-esterification (biodiesel production techniques) and hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, methanogenesis (biogas production techniques) and pyrolysis, thermochemical liquefaction (bio-oil production techniques) along with the focus on increasing biofuel production using nanocatalysts and biochar-based catalysts and the techniques for creating those catalysts. Torrefaction, pyrolysis, hydrothermal carbonization, hydrothermal liquefaction, and gasification are the key methods used to make biochar. Slow pyrolysis and hydrothermal carbonisation are the best methods to produce high-yield biochar. Biochar's catalytic activity is influenced by pyrolysis temperature, pyrolysis time, transition metals, and biomass to water mass ratio. However, there are some noteworthy challenges associated with biofuel development. The cost of feedstock and the option of convenient technology for efficient fuel production, the availability of commercially viable nanoparticles, a biological understanding of the nanomaterial and protein system, and microorganism compatibility levels involving enzymes and nanomaterials are all discussed repeatedly. 

Energy-efficient photothermal catalysis of rubber seed oil for the preparation of biofuel compounds
Fuel components were prepared in this study using rubber seed oil via photothermal catalysis under energy-saving conditions. Modified TiO2 was employed as the catalyst in the catalytic reactions. X-ray diffraction (XRD), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), hydrogen temperature-programmed desorbtion (H2-TPD), CO pulse chemisorption analysis, and UV–vis spectroscopy were employed to examine the microstructure and chemical properties of the modified catalysts. The loading of the catalysts with different active metals considerably reduced the bandgap, leading to enhancements in the absorption of visible light. Temperature, H2 pressure, and reaction time were optimised for the photothermal catalytic reaction via the single factor test. The Pt/TiO2 catalyst realised the highest conversion and selectivity among the tested samples at 120 °C and a H2 pressure of 0.4 MPa for 12 h. Additionally, photo-decarboxylation was confirmed via probing with oleic acid to be the predominant process in the catalytic reaction. This research provides an energy-saving strategy for the preparation of biofuels. 

Catalytic depolymerization of Kraft lignin towards liquid fuels over bifunctional molybdenum oxide based supported catalyst
Catalytic depolymerization of Kraft lignin towards valuable liquid fuels and monomeric phenols has been a significant and extremely attractive target, but it remains a great challenge. Herein, we report a catalytic system consisted of bifunctional molybdenum oxide based supported catalyst for catalytic lignin hydroconversion into alkylated benzenes and phenols. In the meantime, the achieved yield of liquid product was 95% and petroleum ether extracted product was 65% at 300℃ for 12 h over 20%MoOx/ZIF-8@ZIF-67 catalyst. The calorific value was increased from 25.66 MJ/ Kg to 34.31 MJ/Kg. The characterization studies show the incorporation of MoOx species leads to the synergy between redox sites and acid sites. The product analysis and catalytic studies demonstrate its synergism to promote catalytic cleavage of C-O linkages via the coupled hydrodeoxygenation and alkylation reaction. The reasonable catalytic mechanism and redox cycle route of catalyst indicate that the cooperative catalytic system paves the way for high-efficiency waste lignin utilization. 

Direct and Indirect Electrooxidation of Glycerol to Value-Added Products
In this work, different approaches for the direct and indirect electrooxidation of glycerol, a by-product of oleochemistry and biodiesel production, for the synthesis of value-added products and of intermediates for biofuel/electrofuel production, were investigated and compared. For the direct electrooxidation, metallic catalysts were used, whose surfaces were modified by promoters or second catalysts. Bi-modified Pt electrodes (PtxBiy/C) served as model systems for promoter-supported electrocatalysis, whereas IrO2-modified RuO2 electrodes were studied as catalyst combinations, which were compared under acidic conditions with the respective monometallic catalysts (Pt/C, RuO2/Ti, IrO2/Ti). Furthermore, inorganic halide mediators (chloride, bromide, iodide) and organic nitroxyl mediators (4-oxo-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-piperidin-1-oxyl and 4-acetamido-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-piperidin-1-oxyl) were evaluated for indirect electrooxidation. These different approaches were discussed regarding selectivity, conversion, and coulombic efficiency of the electrochemical glycerol oxidation. The Authors. ChemSusChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

Cytosine palladium complex supported on ordered mesoporous silica as highly efficient and reusable nanocatalyst for one-pot oxidative esterification of aldehydes
The synthesis of esters is one of the most fundamental and significant subjects in organic chemistry and chemical industry because they are used in high-value products such as cosmetics, biofuel, pharmaceuticals, surfactants, and food ingredients. In this study, an efficient, economic, sustainable, and green protocol for oxidative esterification reaction has been developed. A one-pot direct transformation of aliphatic, aromatic, and unsaturated aldehydes into esters in the presence of oxygen has been carried out over mesoporous organosilica-supported palladium nanocatalyst (Pd-Cyt@SBA-15) under ambient conditions. Pd-Cyt@SBA-15 efficiently catalyzed selectively large-scale conversion of aldehydes into esters in high yields and large turnover numbers (TON = 98,000). Pd-Cyt@SBA-15 nanocatalyst demonstrated excellent reusability and stability and could be recycled up to ten times without loss of significant reactivity. ICP-AES analysis showed that no leaching of active palladium species occurred during the recycling process of the heterogeneous Pd-Cyt@SBA-15 nanocatalyst. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Microorganisms-promoted biodiesel production from biomass: A review
Biodiesel is considered as a potential substitute for fossil fuel due to its renewability, sustainability, environmentally friendliness, and biodegradability, especially with comparable fuel properties to diesel. The chemocatalytic production of biodiesel from plant oils is widely used in industrial production due to its low cost and high conversion rate. However, the disadvantages are high energy consumption and environmentally unfriendly processing such as chemical catalysts, downstream technology and simultaneously produced waste. Therefore, in the past decade, enzyme-catalyzed biodiesel has attracted more attentions due to its sustainability and environmental friendliness. High-cost, enzyme stability and reusability are the main obstacles to the large-scale industrial development of microbial biodiesel. This review first showcases the state-of-the-art of microbial biodiesel production, including (1) lipid accumulation of oleaginous microorganisms from pretreated lignocellulose biomass, and (2) production of biodiesel from microbial oils via transesterification by immobilized lipase. Also, the technological challenges and future developmental trends are discussed, with the goal of providing the possibility of more economical large-scale industrial production. This paper provides opportunities for the sustainable and eco-friendly production of enzymatic biodiesel in the future. The Author(s)

Catalytic conversion of glycerol into hydrogen and value-added chemicals: Recent research advances
In recent decades, the use of biomass as alternative resources to produce renewable and sustainable biofuels such as biodiesel has gained attention given the situation of the progressive exhaustion of easily accessible fossil fuels, increasing environmental concerns, and a dramatically growing global population. The conventional transesterification of edible, nonedible, or waste cook-ing oils to produce biodiesel is always accompanied by the formation of glycerol as the by-product. Undeniably, it is essential to economically use this by-product to produce a range of valuable fuels and chemicals to ensure the sustainability of the transesterification process. Therefore, recently, glycerol has been used as a feedstock for the production of value-added H2 and chemicals. In this review, the recent advances in the catalytic conversion of glycerol to H2 and high-value chemicals are thoroughly discussed. Specifically, the activity, stability, and recyclability of the catalysts used in the steam reforming of glycerol for H2 production are covered. In addition, the behavior and performance of heterogeneous catalysts in terms of the roles of active metal and support toward the formation of acrolein, lactic acid, 1,3-propanediol, and 1,2-propanediol from glycerol are reviewed. Recommendations for future research and main conclusions are provided. Overall, this review of-fers guidance and directions for the sufficient and economical utilization of glycerol to generate fuels and high value chemicals, which will ultimately benefit industry, environment, and economy. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Conversion of waste seed oil of Citrus aurantium into methyl ester via green and recyclable nanoparticles of zirconium oxide in the context of circular bioeconomy approach
In the current scenario of energy crises and depleting fossil fuels, there is need of sustainable and cheaper interventions with green technology to address these obstinate glitches. Biodiesel produced from waste, non-edible seed oils is a cleaner, green and alternate source of fuel for diesel engines which can possibly add to circular bioeconomy. In this study, Citrus aurantium a novel, nonedible and waste seed oil (38% w/w) producing feedstock was subjected to biodiesel synthesis using recyclable zirconium oxide nano particles synthesized with Alternanthera pungens aqueous leave extract. Maximum yield of 94% was obtained through optimized reaction parameters of methanol to oil molar ratio 6:1, reaction time 120 min, temperature 87.5 °C and catalyst loading of 0.5 wt% using Response Surface Methodology. Green nano particles of zirconium oxide were characterized via Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) and Energy diffraction X-Ray (EDX) while; physiochemical characterization of synthesized biodiesel was carried through Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Gas Chromatography/Mass spectroscopy (GC/MS), and Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR 1H and 13C). Fuel properties of methyl ester met international standards of ASTM D-6571, EN 14214 and China GB/T 20828-2007. It was concluded that biodiesel production from Citrus aurantium waste and non-edible seed oil can be efficiently employed for generation of renewable energy which would further provide assistance in transformation of linear economy to circular bioeconomy. 

Advances in biotechnological applications of waste cooking oil
Waste cooking oil (WCO) is generated when edible vegetable oil is used for frying food items. Inappropriate disposal of WCO exacerbates environmental pollution, block drains and contaminates terrestrial and aquatic habitats while its consumption deleteriously impacts human and animal health. In this review, the current efforts into the biotechnological conversion and applications of WCO as feedstock for biofuel, bisabolene, biolubricants, liquid detergents, dishwashing soap and aromatherapy candle, plasticizer, polyurethane foam, surfactants, asphalt rejuvenator are discussed. Aspects related to the global scenario of WCO generation, their physico-chemical properties and avenues of their utilization are also presented. These applications ensure appropriate utilization of WCO as valuable household commodities and industrial products. More investigations are needed for the deployment of WCO for the production of valuable products and to promote circular economy. The Authors

Co-fermentation of residual algal biomass and glucose under the influence of Fe3O4 nanoparticles to enhance biohydrogen production under dark mode
The present study reports Fe3O4 nanoparticles (Fe3O4 NPs) induced enhanced hydrogen production via co-fermentation of glucose and residual algal biomass (cyanobacteria Lyngbya limnetica). A significant enhancement of dark fermentative H2 production has been noticed under the influence of co-fermentation of glucose and residual algal biomass using Fe3O4 NPs as catalyst. Further, using the optimized ratio of glucose to residual algal biomass (10:4), ∼ 37.14 % higher cumulative H2 has been recorded in presence of 7.5 mg/L Fe3O4 NPs as compared to control at 37 °C. In addition, under the optimum conditions [glucose to residual algal biomass ratio (10:4)] presence of 7.5 mg/L Fe3O4 NPs produces ∼ 937 mL/L cumulative H2 in 168 h at pH 7.5 and at temperature 40 °C. Clostridum butyrium, employed for the dark fermentation yielded ∼ 7.7 g/L dry biomass in 168 h whereas acetate (9.0 g/L) and butyrate (6.2 g/L) have been recorded as the dominating metabolites. 

Fate of nutrients during hydrothermal treatment of food waste
Hydrothermal carbonization was evaluated as a food waste valorization strategy to obtain hydrochar and recover nutrients. In the hydrothermal treatment, the temperature (170–230 °C), reaction time (5–60 min), and addition of HCl (0.1–0.5 M) during the reaction were analyzed. Compared to the feedstock, hydrochar showed an increase in fixed carbon (greater than 45%) and a decrease in ash content (&lt;7%), along with a higher heating value (18.6–26.2 MJ/kg), which would allow for its application as a biofuel for industry according to ISO/TS 17225–8. The hydrochar obtained using plain carbonization showed 75% P and 40% N of the feedstock content, whereas the HCl-mediated treatment (0.5 M) solubilized most of the P, K, and N in the process water (98% P as PO4-P, 98% K, and the total N content as NH4-N (16%) and organic-N) operating at 170 °C for 60 min. The Author(s)

Micro-colloidal catalyst of palladium nanoparticles on polyaniline-coated carbon microspheres for a non-enzymatic hydrogen peroxide sensor
We describe the chemical synthesis of a colloidal micro-catalyst of palladium nanoparticles decorated on polyaniline-coated carbon microspheres (PdNP-PANi/CMs). The colloidal PdNP-PANi/CMs were used to modify the electrode interface of a highly sensitive non-enzymatic sensor. The morphology and electrochemical properties of the catalyst and electrode were characterized by SEM, EDX, FTIR, XRD, and electrochemical methods. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was the model analyte. The catalytic efficiency of the PdNP-PANi/CMs/GCE toward H2O2 was evaluated via the scan rate effect and chronoamperometric measurement, which showed a diffusion-controlled process with a high diffusion coefficient (D = (3.4 ± 0.5) × 10−3 cm2 s−1) and catalytic rate constant (kcat = (4.50 ± 0.02) × 107 mol−1 cm3 s−1). A response time within 5 s and excellent sensitivity (234 µA mM−1 cm−2) were obtained. The proposed electrode provided a linear concentration range between 0.002 and 10 mM with a limit of detection of 0.70 µM. Operationally, the PdNP-PANi/CMs/GCE exhibited good electrocatalytic stability and good repeatability, reproducibility, and selectivity. The applicability of the developed sensor was proved by the determination of H2O2 in human seminal fluid. Recoveries were in the range of 97 ± 2% to 102 ± 3%. The good performances of this colloidal micro-catalyst showed the potential of this material in other sensing, biosensing, and biofuel cell applications. Elsevier B.V.

Evolution of 307 L Stainless Steel Corrosion on the Oxidative Stability of Biodiesel During Storage
The present work aims to examine the link between biodiesel degradation and the corrosion behavior of the 307 L stainless steel used for its storage. Biodiesel was produced from soybean waste cooking oil (SWCO) by trans-esterification process based on a heterogeneous catalyst and methanol. 307 L stainless steel was used to assess the metal surface corrosion after direct contact with the biofuel. The different changes in the biodiesel composition were investigated by FTIR, GS-MS, and UV-absorbance, while the corrosion effect was evaluated by electrochemical methods, SEM/EDS microscopy techniques, X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis, and UV–Vis–NIR absorbance. The results reveal a weak influence of methyl ester on metal degradation, indicating a low corrosion rate with a localized micro pitting on its surface. Moreover, flame atomic absorption spectroscopy (FAAS) showed the existence of a diminutive number of metal ions, and the electrochemical assays such as electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and the polarization curves (PC) exhibited a great corrosion resistance of the 307 L stainless steel by the formation of a passive film., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.

Transformation of residual fatty raw materials into third generation green diesel over a nickel catalyst supported on mineral palygorskite
The transformation of residual fatty raw materials (RFRMs) (waste cooking oils (WCO), fatty acid distillate (FAD), oil extracted from spent coffee grounds (SCGO) and oil from chicken fat (CHO)) into third generation green diesel was studied over a very active nickel catalyst supported on mineral palygorskite. The transformation of biodiesel into green diesel was also studied. The physicochemical characteristics of the RFRMs were correlated with their composition and the conditions and procedure of their preparation. The composition of the reaction liquid mixture in total green diesel follows the order: 98% (CHO), 83% (WCO), 68% (FAD) and 10% (SCGO). Biodiesel is transformed much faster into green diesel than RFRMs. The catalyst use does not affect its main physicochemical characteristics. The activity trend was rationalized in terms of the relative surface concentrations of the supported nickel phases and on the basis of some molecules present in the RFRMs which may bring about catalyst deactivation. 

One-pot synthesis of acid-base bifunctional catalysts for biodiesel production
Acid-base bifunctional heterogeneous solid catalysts, known as the active site with base-acid properties, exhibited relatively good performance on the transesterification for soybean oil for green fuel production. We investigated the use of niobium and three alkali metal oxides (Li, Na, and K) as MyNbOX (M = Li, Na, K) composite as acid-base catalysts for biodiesel production. MyNbOX catalysts were prepared using a simple solid-state reaction, mixing, and grinding niobium dioxide with alkali metal carbonates calcined at 800 °C in air for 4 h. XRD, BET, FE-SEM, TEM and TPD techniques were employed for catalysts characterization. The highest biodiesel yield (98.08%) was achieved under the transesterification condition of 65 °C, 6 h, 24 methanol/oil molar ratio and 2 wt% of LiNbO3 as the catalyst. The results showed that LiNbO3 could be efficiently reused at least 10 cycles with an insignificant reduction in the biodiesel yield. The physicochemical properties of the biodiesel were further studied and compared with the ASTM and the EN biodiesel specifications. The results showed that the properties of the biodiesel produced complied with the international standard specifications. 

Estimation of higher heating values (HHVs) of biomass fuels based on ultimate analysis using machine learning techniques and improved equation
To have a sustainable economy and environment, several countries have widely inclined to the utilization of non-fossil fuels like biomass fuels to produce heat and electricity. The advantage of employing biomass for combustion is emerging as a potential renewable energy, which is regarded as a cheap fuel. Chemical constituents or elements are essential properties in biomass applications, which would be costly and labor-intensive to experimentally estimate them. One of the criteria to evaluate the energy of biomass from an economic perspective is the higher heating value (HHV). In the present work, we have applied multilayer perceptron artificial neural network (MLP-ANN), least-squares support vector machine (LSSVM), ant colony-adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ACO-ANFIS), particle swarm optimization- ANFIS (PSO-ANFIS), genetic algorithm-radial basis function (GA-RBF) and new multivariate nonlinear regression (MNR) as accurate correlation methods to estimate HHVs of biomass fuels based on the ultimate analysis. 535 experimental data were gathered from literature and categorized into eight classes of by-products of fruits, agri-wastes, wood chips/tree species, grasses/leaves/fibrous materials, other waste materials, briquettes/charcoals/pellets, cereal and Industrial wastes. In the term of statistical analysis, average absolute relative deviation (AARD) authenticates that MNR and GA-RBF algorithm with %AARD of 3.5 and 3.4 could be used to estimate HHV. In addition, developed models results were compared to the results of 69 recently previously published empirical correlations and it confirms the reliability of our results. Relevency factor shows the impact of biomass elements on HHV and outlier analysis indicates the unreliable experimental data. The results of this study can be used by researchers to design and optimize biomass combustion systems. 

Hydrothermal liquefaction of residues of Cocos nucifera (coir and pith) using subcritical water: Process optimization and product characterization
The effects of time (10–60 min) and temperature (250–350°C) on TOCcrude and biochar yields from coir and pith through hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) process was investigated. The parameters were optimized for minimum biochar and maximum total organic carbon (TOC) in aqueous crude using response surface methodology (RSM). The optimal time and temperature for HTL of coir and pith were 35 min, 302°C, and 35.2 min, 300°C, respectively. Higher biomass conversion and bio-oil yield of 87.34%, 83.76% and 34.6%, 32.72%, was observed for coir and pith, respectively. The biochar yield for coir and pith was reduced from 40 to 12.66% and 34–16.24%. The oxygen and carbon content in the HTL products such as heavy bio-oil (HBO), light bio-oil (LBO) were lower and higher increasing the High Heating Value (HHV), respectively. The HHV of HBO, and LBO for coir and pith were 31 MJ/kg, 22 MJ/kg and 28 MJ/kg, 19 MJ/kg, respectively. The GC-MS/MS analysis revealed that the oil was a mixture of compounds such as alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, amines, amides, esters, ethers, phenols, and their derivatives. Therefore, the conversion of coir and pith to bio-oil can be effectively achieved through the HTL process.

Optimizing the catalytic activities of methanol and thermotolerant Kocuria flava lipases for biodiesel production from cooking oil wastes
In this study, two highly thermotolerant and methanol-tolerant lipase-producing bacteria were isolated from cooking oil and they exhibited a high number of catalytic lipase activities recording 18.65 ± 0.68 U/mL and 13.14 ± 0.03 U/mL, respectively. Bacterial isolates were identified according to phenotypic and genotypic 16S rRNA characterization as Kocuria flava ASU5 (MT919305) and Bacillus circulans ASU11 (MT919306). Lipases produced from Kocuria flava ASU5 showed the highest methanol tolerance, recording 98.4% relative activity as well as exhibited high thermostability and alkaline stability. Under the optimum conditions obtained from 3D plots of response surface methodology design, the Kocuria flava ASU5 biocatalyst exhibited an 83.08% yield of biodiesel at optimized reaction variables of, 60 ○C, pH value 8 and 1:2 oil/alcohol molar ratios in the reaction mixture. As well as, the obtained results showed the interactions of temperature/methanol were significant effects, whereas this was not noted in the case of temperature/pH and pH/methanol interactions. The obtained amount of biodiesel from cooking oil was 83.08%, which was analyzed by a GC/Ms profile. The produced biodiesel was confirmed by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) approaches showing an absorption band at 1743 cm−1, which is recognized for its absorption in the carbonyl group (C=O) which is characteristic of ester absorption. The energy content generated from biodiesel synthesized was estimated as 12,628.5 kJ/mol. Consequently, Kocuria flava MT919305 may provide promising thermostable, methanol-tolerant lipases, which may improve the economic feasibility and biotechnology of enzyme biocatalysis in the synthesis of value-added green chemicals., The Author(s).

Biodiesel production from waste chicken oil using nanoeggshell heterogeneous catalyst with isopropyl ether as cosolvent
The main aim of the present work is to produce biodiesel from waste chicken fat using a nanoeggshell heterogeneous catalyst. For the first time, isopropyl ether was used as cosolvent and investigated the effects of transesterification factors affecting the biodiesel yield. The eggshell has been activated in the muffle furnace at 900°C and was further characterized by using X-ray diffraction analysis, Fourier transform infrared spectrometer, thermogravimetric analysis, transmission electron microscopy, Brunauer–Emmett–Teller, and Hammet indicator to study the catalytic behavior of the catalyst. Optimization of transesterification parameters such as methanol-to-oil ratio, methanol-to-cosolvent ratio, catalyst concentration, and reaction time have been investigated using statistical techniques of response surface methodology (RSM) with a central composite design. The empirical value of methyl ester yield obtained from RSM (95.7%) could be comparable with the experimental value (98.1%) and showed that the model shall be considered statistically significant at 97% confidence level. Using Design expert software, by point prediction tool, the experiments were repeated for two times under optimal conditions attained biodiesel yield of 97.2%. The experimental work explored that the addition of isopropyl ether improved the biodiesel yield with a reduction in reaction time from 4 to 1.5 h. The catalyst reusability was stable up to four cycles of the transesterification reaction. Wiley Periodicals LLC

Sulfonation of Natural Carbonaceous Bentonite as a Low-Cost Acidic Catalyst for Effective Transesterification of Used Sunflower Oil into Diesel; Statistical Modeling and Kinetic Properties
Bentonite sample enriched in organic matters (oil shale) was functionalized with -SO3H sulfonated carbonaceous bentonite (S-CB) by sulfonation process as a low-cost and effective acidic catalyst for the transesterification spent sunflower oil (SFO). The sulfonation effect was followed by several analytic techniques including X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared, and scanning electron microscopy analysis. The catalytic performance of the sulfonated product was evaluated based on a statistical design which was built according to the response surface methodology and the central composite rotatable design. Using the S-CB acidic catalyst in the transesterification of spent SFO resulted in an actual biodiesel yield of 96% at studied conditions of 85 min at reaction interval, 50 °C as temperature,15:1 as methanol/oil ratio, and 3.5 wt % as S-CB loading. Moreover, the optimization function suggested enhancement to obtained yield up to 97.9% by selecting the values of temperature at 62 °C, the time at 98.5 min, the methanol/SFO ratio at 14.4:1, and S-CB loading at 3.4 wt %. The technical evaluation of the SFO biodiesel reflected the suitability of the product to be used as biofuels according to international standards. The kinetic behavior of the SFO transesterification reaction over S-CB is of pseudo-first order properties and of low activation energy. Finally, the synthetic S-CB as a solid acidic catalyst is of significant reusability and was reused five times with remarkable biodiesel yields. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

Oxygen-vacancy-mediated catalytic methanation of lignocellulose at temperatures below 200°C
Biomethane is a clean energy and a key platform chemical for modern chemical industries. The conversion of biomass, especially the most abundant lignocellulose, into biomethane is challenging and shows low selectivity either in chemical or biological processes. Herein, we report the direct methanation of biomass at temperatures below 200°C with &gt;95% selectivity using interfacial oxygen-vacancy (VO)-mediated catalysis over Ru/TiO2. The biomass feedstock is oxidized by TiO2 to form CO2 and VO, and CO2 is then in situ reduced on Ru sites to CH4, restoring the oxygen to VO simultaneously. Various biomass resources were converted into methane with 82%–99% yields. Even lowering the temperature to 120°C, about 0.24 mmol g−1 h−1 of CH4 with &gt;99% selectivity was steadily produced from 50 wt % aqueous glycerol for 432 h. In situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, infrared spectrometry, and DFT calculation confirm the VO-mediated catalysis process over Ru/TiO2. Elsevier Inc.

Effects of nickle, nickle-cobalt and nickle-cobalt-phosphorus nanocatalysts for enhancing biohydrogen production in microbial electrolysis cells using paper industry wastewater
Paper industries are water-intensive industries that produce large amount of wastewater containing dyes, toxicity and high nutrient content. These industries require sustainable technology for their waste disposal and MEC could be one of them. However, effective MEC operation at neutral pH and ambient temperature requires economical and efficient cathodes that are capable to treat indusial wastewater along with recovery of energy/biohydrogen. Co-deposits of Nickel, Nickel–Cobalt and Nickel–Cobalt–Phosphorous on the surface of SS and Cu base metals distinctly were used as cathodes in MEC for the concurrent treatment of real paper industry wastewater and biohydrogen production. MECs were utilized in batch mode at neutral pH, applied voltage of 0.6 V and 30 ± 2 °C temperature with paper industry wastewater and activated sludge as microbial sources. The fabricated Nickel–Cobalt–Phosphorous gives the higher hydrogen production rate of 0.16 ± 0.002 m3(H2) m−3d−1 and 0.14 ± 0.002 m3(H2) m −3d −1 respectively, with ~33–42 % treatment efficiency for a 500 ml wastewater in 7-day batch cycle in both the cases; while it is lowest in the case of the control cathodes (SS1 (0.07 ± 0.002 m3(H2) m−3d−1) &amp; Cu1 (0.06 ± 0.004 m3(H2) m−3d−1)). It was also found that fabricated cathodes have the capability to treat industrial wastewater at ambient conditions efficiently with higher energy recovery. Prepared cathodes show enhanced hydrogen production and treatment efficiency as well as are competitive to some reported literature. 

A molecular investigation on lignin thermochemical conversion and carbonaceous organics deposition induced catalyst deactivation
Surface coking is the primary deactivation pattern of metal-based catalyst in biofuel reforming, which hinders the commercial utilisation of biomass. In this study, molecular dynamics simulation with reactive force field is performed to investigate the surface instability induced thermal degradation of Ni nanocatalyst and coke deposition induced catalyst deactivation. Coke deposited on catalyst surfaces is a complex mixture of carbonaceous organics. Coke surrogate models containing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and oxygenated aromatics are proposed to reflect the molecular size and O/C ratio based on the molecular structures identified during lignin pyrolysis and soot inception mechanism. Lindemann index is used to characterize the degree of crystallinity of catalyst. It is found that atoms at unsaturated sites of outer shell show high mobility and tend to modify the coordination number distribution. Mechanisms behind the effects of temperature, PAH size and oxygen content on coke adsorption are revealed from three aspects of molecular collision dynamics, thermal dynamics and kinetics. The modification of crystallinity of catalyst outer shell and the occurrence of seeping after coke adsorption would affect the subsequent catalyst regeneration. This study is expected to provide guidance on the design of anti-coking catalyst, evaluation of catalyst regeneration and reactor optimisation. 

Assessing the economic viability of pretreatment technologies to make sugars for chemical catalytic upgrading to fuels and chemicals
The monomeric/polymeric sugars derived from cellulose and hemicellulose must be nearly pure (>95%) for chemical catalytic upgrading to chemicals and fuels. This work reports the results of a qualitative screening study of biomass pretreatment and fractionation technologies that can meet this purity requirement. Two technologies, combined autohydrolysis and organosolv (AOF) and formic acid pulping (FAP), were found to be suitable for the effective fractionation of lignocellulose to yield cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. The estimated costs of making nearly pure (>95%) polysaccharides from a lignocellulosic feedstock were US$0.66 per kg (AOF) and US$0.36 per kg (FAP). The limiting factor for commercialization was the high ratio of liquid-to-dry-solid required for biomass fractionation using both AOF and FAP technologies. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Antioxidant additives produced from Argan shell lignin depolymerization
The present work summarizes the results of an experimental study focused on producing antioxidant additives for biofuels from argan shell lignin. The generation of this waste has noticeably increased in specific regions of Morocco as a result of the upward trend in the production of argan oil. Lignin extracted from argan shells via a semi-chemical pulping process was depolymerized under hydrothermal conditions in a stirred autoclave reactor at a temperature range of 250−350 °C. Lignin conversion to phenolic compounds was conducted in subcritical water together with different reaction medium (H2, CO2, and HCOOH). The organic fraction in the aqueous liquid product was extracted and blended with biodiesel at a dosage of 1 wt % to evaluate its antioxidant potential. According to the obtained results, the biodiesel oxidation stability time was drastically improved up to 400%. The depolymerization temperature was observed as a critical factor in the antioxidant potential of the additives, showing a maximum value at 300 °C, regardless of the reaction medium. An extensive characterization of the produced additives was performed. The phenolic monomers present in the produced additives were identified using gas chromatography−mass spectrometry, finding a notable presence of catechol, especially in the additives obtained at 300 °C, which led to the best results of biodiesel oxidation stability. Gel permeation chromatography analyses of the additives also showed a well dissolution of relatively big molecules (up to 7000 Da) in biodiesel. More efforts are required to verify the actual antioxidant potential of these types of molecules. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society

Synthesis of biodiesel from waste palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) and dimethyl carbonate (DMC) via Taguchi optimisation method
The sustainability of the biodiesel production process is a controversial issue in terms of the production cost and promotion of a clean and safe energy process without adverse effects on the environment. Hence, the need to achieve energy sustainability is paramount due to the environmental benefits of biodiesel. In this study, a new approach was reported for biodiesel production from a cheap and readily available waste feedstock, palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD). An environmentally friendly green solvent, dimethyl carbonate (DMC), was utilised in the esterification of free fatty acids present in PFAD. The major influencing reaction parameters were optimised using the Taguchi (L9) orthogonal design, and statistical analysis was employed to determine the percentage contribution of the individual parameter on biodiesel yields. The maximum biodiesel yield of 89.50% was obtained at optimised reaction conditions, using the reaction time of 3.5 h, reaction temperature of 90 °C, DMC to PFAD molar ratio of 10:1 and catalyst concentration of 12 wt%. The percentage contribution of each of the individual parameters on the biodiesel yield was determined as follows: catalyst concentration (51.72%), reaction temperature (30.14%), DMC to PFAD molar ratio (16.94%), and reaction time (1.21%). The mechanism of esterification reaction between PFAD and DMC has also been proposed. This study illustrates that DMC can be successfully employed as an excellent methylating agent for the esterification of PFAD waste feedstock. The validation study also revealed a good agreement between the predicted and experimental values. 

Catalytic deoxygenation of waste cooking oil utilizing nickel oxide catalysts over various supports to produce renewable diesel fuel
The development of renewable diesel fuel from the deoxygenation of non-edible oil is an alternative to non-renewable fuels. Herein, the evaluation of catalytic deoxygenation of waste cooking oil (WCO) over supported Ni-based catalysts was investigated. A series of Ni-based catalysts supported on activated carbon (AC), reduced graphene oxide (rGO), and beta zeolite (Zeo) were prepared via the wet-impregnation method and later carbonised under N2 flow at 550 °C for 4 h. Addition of Ni to AC improves the good physicochemical properties of the catalyst, owing to the high number of acid-base sites, high surface area, smaller crystallite size, and high pore volume of the catalyst. From the catalytic results, Ni20/AC was the most active catalyst by giving 90% hydrocarbon yield and 89% selectivity towards n-(C15 + C17) under H2-free and solvent-free conditions for 3 h at 350 °C and 300 rpm. Furthermore, it was stable up to the fourth cycle with consistent hydrocarbon yield (85–87%) and 66–77% selectively towards n-(C15 + C17). Overall, Ni20/AC shows highly promising catalytic performance due to its good physiochemical properties and high catalyst stability.

A cleaner route of biodiesel production from waste frying oil using novel potassium tin oxide catalyst: A smart liquid-waste management
The valorization of waste frying oil (WFO) to biodiesel has been carried out via solid base catalyzed transesterification reaction. A novel potassium tin oxide (KSO) catalyst was synthesized via polymer precursor auto combustion method. The catalyst showed the best physicochemical properties when it was calcined at 800 °C. Using KSO 800 catalyst, the highest FAME conversion (99.5%) of WFO found at moderated reaction condition within very short time (35 min); moreover, no leaching of K-species was observed in reusability test upto 5th cycle. Kinetics proved that the above catalytic reaction followed pseudo-first-order kinetics and the rate of the reaction was doubled with increasing 10 °C reaction temperature. The reaction activation energy, enthalpy of activation, entropy of activation, and Gibb's free energy of activation of the reaction were found to be 66.52 kJ/mol, 62.95 kJ/mol, −74.07 J/mol/K and 88 kJ/mol respectively. Evaluation of the green parameters revealed that KSO 800 catalyzed transesterification process approached a cleaner route with excellent efficacy in terms of turnover frequency and yield. KSO 800 helped to produce high quality biodiesel from WFO adopting faster and greener reaction pathway. Thus, KSO 800 was considered as a potential and green catalyst for transforming waste oil into biofuel.

Valorization of palm oil soap stock waste toward for biodiesel production: Process optimization under zero waste concept
Palm oil soap stock (POSS) was recycled from bio-waste to bio-fuel. Firstly, POSS was converted through acidification to be acidified POSS (APOSS) coupled with solvent extraction. APOSS with a high content of free fatty acids (FFAs) (90.94%) was obtained. Subsequently, the FFAs in APOSS were converted to biodiesel via esterification, catalyzed by immobilized alginate-polyvinyl alcohol (ALG-PVA) lipase. The key factors affecting the reaction, such as the temperature (30–50 °C), methanol to FFA molar ratio (2:1 to 4:1), and agitation rate (150–250 rpm) were optimized by statistical response surface methodology (RSM). The highest biodiesel yield was achieved with a reaction temperature of 40 °C, methanol/FFA molar ratio of 3:1, and 200 rpm agitation rate, as the optimal conditions. Furthermore, the biocatalyst can be reused up to 16 cycles. Interestingly, the alternative biodiesel production process reported herein promotes zero waste from the palm oil refinery process.

Desulphurization of drop-in fuel produced through lipid pyrolysis using brown grease and biosolids feedstocks
Biosolids can be incorporated as a water replacement into a two-stage thermal process for biofuel production from brown greases, significantly reducing the overall environmental impact of the process. Unfortunately, the use of biosolids resulted in an appreciable amount of sulphur in the pyrolytic oils produced in the final stage of the process. Here, we first evaluated the relationship between the sulphur content of fatty acids pyrolysis liquid products and pyrolytic conditions. Afterwards, we evaluated the sulphur removal efficiency of several approaches such as distillation, extraction and adsorption. Through a combination of distillation and liquid-liquid extraction, we achieved a desulphurization of up to 95% reaching a final sulphur concentration of 15 ± 4 ppm. The Authors

Valorization of groundnut shell via pyrolysis: Product distribution, thermodynamic analysis, kinetic estimation, and artificial neural network modeling
Pyrolysis of agricultural biomass is a promising technique for producing renewable energy and effectively managing solid waste. In this study, groundnut shell (GNS) was processed at 500 °C in an inert gas atmosphere with a gas flow rate and a heating rate of 10 mL/min and 10 °C/min, respectively, in a custom-designed fluidized bed pyrolytic-reactor. Under optimal operating conditions, the GNS-derived pyrolytic-oil yield was 62.8 wt.%, with the corresponding biochar (19.5 wt.%) and biogas yields (17.7 wt.%). The GC-MS analysis of the GNS-based bio-oil confirmed the presence of (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-amine (18.814%), 2-Fluoroformyl-3,3,4,4-tetrafluoro-1,2-oxazetidine (16.23%), 5,7-dimethyl-1H-Indazole (11.613%), N-methyl-N-nitropropan-2-amine (6.5%) and butyl piperidino sulfone (5.668%) as major components, which are used as building blocks in the biofuel, pharmaceutical, and food industries. Furthermore, a 2 × 5 × 1 artificial neural network (ANN) architecture was developed to predict the decomposition behavior of GNS at heating rates of 5, 10, and 20 °C/min, while the thermodynamic and kinetic parameters were estimated using a non-isothermal model-free method. The Popescu method predicted activation energy (Ea) of GNS biomass ranging from 111 kJ/mol to 260 kJ/mol, with changes in enthalpy (ΔH), Gibbs-free energy (ΔG), and entropy (ΔS) ranging from 106 to 254 kJ/mol, 162–241 kJ/mol, and −0.0937 to 0.0598 kJ/mol/K, respectively. The extraction of high-quality precursors from GNS pyrolysis was demonstrated in this study, as well as the usefulness of the ANN technique for thermogravimetric analysis of biomass. 

The conversion of poultry slaughterhouse wastewater sludge into biodiesel: Process modeling and optimization
Wastewater sludge from a poultry slaughterhouse treatment plant was recovered through conversion into biodiesel by ultrasound-assisted in situ transesterification. The main effects of the process parameters were investigated at three levels, and their empirical relationship was modeled using artificial neural network (ANN) and response surface methodology (RSM). The developed models predicted the process behavior with excellent accuracy. Although both models had similar prediction performances, ANN marginally outperformed RSM. The capability of the genetic algorithm (GA) combined with the RSM (RSM-GA) and ANN (ANN-GA) models was evaluated for optimizing the process variables. The maximum biodiesel yield (21.45% w/w) was obtained using the ANN-GA model under optimized conditions, i.e., at the reaction time of 39.69 min, H2SO4 concentration of 3.34% (v/v), methanol-to-sludge relative content of 14.91:1 (mL/g), and ultrasound power of 104.87 W. Consequently, a combination of ANN and GA was proposed to model and optimize the transesterification process. The biodiesel yield obtained in this study was higher than the previously reported values from tannery (10.98%), dairy (13.46%), and municipal (18.58%) sewage sludge. This study specified biodiesel with a fatty acid methyl esters content of 96.86% using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, Fourier transform infrared, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. 

Economical evaluation of jojoba cultivation for biodiesel production in Jordan
In this study, the economic feasibility of jojoba cultivation for biodiesel production in Jordan is analyzed. The investigations are carried out for all activities and operations from jojoba farming, through oil extraction to biodiesel production and byproduct utilization. A thousand-hectare farm, in the eastern Badia of Jordan planted with 1666 jojoba trees per hectare, is selected as a case study area. Over the 20 years life of the project, an average annual seed production of 2.5 kg per tree, with oil content of 50%, is assumed. The amount of biodiesel produced is predicted at 1750.62 tons/year. The total fixed cost and annual operating cost are estimated at US$ thousand 12701.36 and US$ thousand 2352.38, respectively. The largest contributor to these values is the cost of the drip irrigation system, which forms about 45.83% of the total fixed capital cost and 25.79% of the total direct operating cost. The farm establishment cost contributes to 22.17% of the fixed cost, while the main biodiesel production plant represents only 6.0%. The biodiesel production cost is predicted at US$ 1.19/L when the glycerol is sold as a byproduct. However, when glycerol is converted into solketal, the credit of solketal reduces the biodiesel production cost to US$ 0.70/L. 

1-(Carboxymethyl)pyridinium chloride as an acidic ionic liquid for rice straw effective pretreatment
Herein, a suitable pretreatment based on an acidic ionic liquid was employed for superior enzymatic hydrolysis of rice straw, which is regarded as an inexpensive, easily accessible, and renewable agricultural waste. Using 1-(carboxymethyl)pyridinium chloride as an acidic ionic liquid, containing, both acetate and chloride groups, a superior penetration between cellulose chains and a proper dissolution can be easily achieved. Different analyzes, including FT-IR, XRD, and SEM, were conducted, indicating restructuring and increased free volume between cellulose chains in rice straw. Following the proper pretreatment with the ionic liquid, the next step in the fermentation and enzymatic hydrolysis process was well conducted, and promising results were attained for biofuel productions. The effects of water as a co-solvent, pretreatment time (2, 3, 5 h), temperature (25, 90, 120 °C), and solid loading (5, 6, 15% w/w) were investigated for maximum ethanol production. The best results were obtained in 35% water, at room temperature, and 6% (w/w) solid loading for 3 h. The hydrolysis yield in ethanol production was improved to 62.2% of the theoretical maximum. 

Influence of carbon casting loading and ultrasound irradiation on catalytic design of Al–Si–P zeotype nanostructure for biofuel production
Due to the large size of free fatty acid molecules, they cannot diffuse into Al–Si–P Zeotype pores in the biofuel production process. Therefore, in the current work, to rectify this problem, in the synthesis of Al–Si–P zeotype by hydrothermal method, various weight percentages of the carbon casting and ultrasound waves for the uniform of the materials were used. Moreover, to enhancement the acidic strength and catalyst performance, Ceric oxide was accommodated on the Al–Si–P zeotype structure by sono-solvothermal synthesis. TPD-NH3, FESEM, HRTEM, BET-BJH, and EDX analyses were utilized for characterizing the samples developed in the present work. BET analysis has revealed that the optimized percentage of charcoal active is 4 wt %. By adding the sonication technique at the stage accommodating Ceric oxide on Al–Si–P zeotype, the conversion percentage increased from 77 to 94%. Test of the capability of modified Al–Si–P Zeotype with sonication and carbon casting to produce biofuel from waste oil delivered a conversion of 91.5%. Kinetic studies have shown that reaction of oil to biofuel is of the first degree, and the modified Al–Si–P Zeotype with sonication and carbon casting has the highest rate constant (0.0014 min−1) among all of the synthesized samples. 

Three-Dimensional Glucose/ Oxygen Biofuel Cells Based on Enzymes Embedded in Tetrabutylammonium Modified Nafion
A stable three-dimensional glucose/oxygen enzymatic biofuel cell is fabricated based on the method of polymer encapsulation-based immobilization. And three-dimensional carbon felt is used as the substrate of the bio-electrode for increasing enzymatic loading density. Gold nanoparticles and multi-wall carbon nanotubes are employed to promote direct electron transfer and enhance conductivity and electron conduction rate of bio-electrodes. Glucose dehydrogenase and bilirubin oxidase are immobilized with tetrabutylammonium bromide (TBAB) modified Nafion, which enhances the stability of the bio-electrodes by the immobilization method. A membrane-free glucose/oxygen biofuel cell is assembled with a high open-circuit voltage of 0.85 V and a maximum power density of 21.9± 0.1 μW/cm2 in 0.1 M pH 7.0 phosphate buffer solution with 100 mM glucose and air saturation. And the biofuel cell shows high stability to the condition. After 60 days of periodic storage experiments, the performance of the enzymatic biofuel cell still maintained 90.3% of its electrochemical performance. Copyright by ASME.

Effect of hybrid blends of raw tyre pyrolysis oil, karanja biodiesel and diesel fuel on single cylinder four stokes diesel engine
Recycling is the need of time and tyre pyrolysis is a process of recycling waste tyre to yield oil. A lot of research has been conducted on blending of diesel to produce oil but due to higher sulphur content and higher exhaust emission limits, use of tyre pyrolysis oil can be very beneficial. In the present study, our focus is on hybrid blends of oil generated, karanja biodiesel and diesel. One of the major problems with biofuel is the lower calorific value, but pyrolysis oil has higher calorific value. Hence the decision was made to blend karanja biodiesel and pyrolysis oil. The blends prepared are tyre pyrolysis (TP) 10%, karanja biodiesel (KB) 20% and diesel 70% called as TP10KB20. Similarly, TP20KB10 was also done. Further, equivalent blends of individual fuel source (TPO30 and KB30) are done and compared. Experimental investigation of hybrid blends (TP10KB20, TP20KB10) and equivalent source blend (TPO30, KBD30 and diesel) fuel are done on single cylinder CI engine. It was observed that performance and combustion of TP10KB20 and TP20KB10 were superior than any other individual blend and diesel. However, emission of TP20KB10 limits it use. Further, TP10KB20 has given superior performance, combustion and emissions characteristics compared to diesel and other blends.

Structured catalysts with mesoporous nanocomposite active components for transformation of biogas/biofuels into syngas
Ordered mesoporous MgAl2O4 support was synthesized by one-pot evaporation-induced self-assembly method with block copolymers. Nanocomposite catalysts were prepared by loading this support with PrNi0.9Ru0.1O3 perovskite or Ni + Ru-doped Ce0.35Zr0.35Pr0.3O2 fluorite oxides. Their texture, structure, surface properties and reactivity have been studied by combination of modern structural, spectroscopic and kinetic methods. Suppression of MgAl2O4 support acidity, strong interaction of small Ru-Ni alloy nanoparticles with the surface layers of this support modified by perovskite and fluorite oxides with a high oxygen mobility and reactivity provide a high activity and stability to coking and sintering of these catalysts in all studied reactions of methane and ethanol transformation into syngas. Ni + Ru/Ce0.35Zr0.35Pr0.3O2/MgAl2O4 active component loaded on honeycomb Fechraloy foil substrate demonstrated a high performance and stability to coking in autothermal natural gas oxi-dry reforming, ethanol steam reforming and autothermal reforming of ethyl acetate in concentrated feeds promising for the practical application. Elsevier B.V.

Zeolite-Tailored Active Site Proximity for the Efficient Production of Pentanoic Biofuels
Biofuel production can alleviate reliance on fossil resources and thus carbon dioxide emission. Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) refers collectively to a series of important biorefinery processes to produce biofuels. Here, well-dispersed and ultra-small Ru metal nanoclusters (ca. 1 nm), confined within the micropores of zeolite Y, provide the required active site intimacy, which significantly boosts the chemoselectivity towards the production of pentanoic biofuels in the direct, one-pot HDO of neat ethyl levulinate. Crucial for improving catalyst stability is the addition of La, which upholds the confined proximity by preventing zeolite lattice deconstruction during catalysis. We have established and extended an understanding of the “intimacy criterion” in catalytic biomass valorization. These findings bring new understanding of HDO reactions over confined proximity sites, leading to potential application for pentanoic biofuels in biomass conversion. Wiley-VCH GmbH

One-step upgrading of bio-based furfural to γ-valerolactone: Via HfCl4-mediated bifunctional catalysis
γ-Valerolactone (GVL) is an attractive biomass-derived platform molecule that plays an important role in the production of biofuels and biopolymers. The synthesis of GVL from renewable biomass and its derivatives has great application prospects but also presents challenges due to the multiple conversion steps involved. Here, a HfCl4-mediated acid-base bifunctional catalytic system was developed, which was demonstrated to be efficient for upgrading furfural (FF) to GVL in a single pot with unprecedented performance. The Lewis acidity of Hf4+ and moderate basicity of HfO(OH)2·xH2O, and strong Brønsted acidity of HCl in situ generated from HfCl4 hydrolysis were found to play a synergistic role in the cascade reaction processes, mainly contributing to the pronounced catalytic activity. The effects of the key reaction parameters, such as the catalyst dosage, reaction time, and temperature, on GVL production were optimized by response surface methodology. It is worth mentioning that the recovered catalyst after thermal treatment could be directly used for the hydrogen transfer processes, like FF-to-furfuryl alcohol conversion. This catalytic strategy opens a new avenue for the selective conversion of biomass feedstocks involving multiple steps and complex processes. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Synthesis of biodiesel by transesterification of used frying oils (Ufo) through basic homogeneous catalysts (naoh and koh)
The quest for an alternative sustainable source without petroleum technology and its refining has prompted the development of biofuels, such as biodiesel, from the transesterification of new or utilized vegetable oil. This work is devoted to the investigation of the transesterification of a used vegetable oil and optimization of the various parameters influencing the synthesis of biodiesel, such as the molar proportion (alcohol/oil), the amount of catalyst added and their weight percentage, the type of alcohol, the temperature T(°C) and the reaction time. From this standpoint, the current work's significant target is to propel the preliminary conditions of the transesterification response of fatty oils to create biodiesel from utilized vegetable oils. Diverse physicochemical characteristics were investigated (in terms of density, viscosity, acidity index, pour point, and flash point) to obtain biodiesel accordingly with international standards and commercial biodiesel. by the authors.

Combustion and emission characteristics of diesel engine fueled with nanocatalyst and pyrolysis oil produced from the solid plastic waste using screw reactor
In recent years, the concerns of non-biodegradable mixed plastic waste have been growing and resulting in strengthening of technologies devoted to convert waste into energy. This study examined the technique to extract plastic oil from mixed plastic, non-biodegradable waste. Further, the mechanical characteristics of plastic pyrolysis oil were done. Pyrolysis method was used to extract the oil from plastic waste with screw reactor and the chemical compounds and the characterization of this oil was analyzed. The Fe2O3 doped Al2O3 was dispersed to enhance the quality of Waste pyrolysis oil (PO) by ultrasonication. The performance and emission characteristics of various fuels at different load conditions were analyzed by conducting a series of tests in single cylinder 4 stroke water cooled diesel engine. The benefit of the addition of 25 ppm of Fe2O3 doped Al2O3 in PO was represented graphically. A series of tests was conducted for various brake mean effective pressure of 1.3 bar, 2.6 bar, 3.9 bar and 5.2 bar for the test blends, PO (neat pyrolysis oil) and P25A (25% PO+ 75% diesel with 25 ppm of Al2O3). From the procured results, the addition of the novel nanoparticles increases the production of brake power by 35% with reduced emission of 45% and 60% of HC and CO2 respectively. On the other hand, the NOx emission was reduced by 15% and 9 % than the neat plastic oil and diesel fuel. Further, the usage of the pyrolysis oil at 25% generated the positive effects on both combustion and emission compared to neat PO.

Candlenut oil: review on oil properties and future liquid biofuel prospects
The rapid depletion of diesel fuel, increasing energy demand, and environmental pollution concerns are increasing worldwide interest in the production of liquid biofuels. Biofuel (bio-aviation and biodiesel) is a potential and plausible alternative to diesel fuel to substantially mitigate the environmental impact of future energy demand. Non-edible crop oil is viewed as a potential feedstock for liquid biofuel production owing to the massive demand for edible oil as a food source. However, the major limitation of utilizing non-edible crop oil for biodiesel production is the cost due to the high price of feedstocks and the limited supply of large-scale biodiesel production. Candlenut trees can grow in harsh and arid climates due to low moisture requirements. Therefore, candlenut can be cultivated in the most unused lands, particularly in developing countries along coasts and riverbanks and in deserts and other wastelands unsuitable for edible crops. Additionally, candlenut seed contains a high amount of oil (30%-60%). Thus, candlenut oil is a promising source for commercial biodiesel production. The present study was conducted to review the possibilities and challenges of utilizing candlenut as a potential feedstock for biodiesel production. Additionally, several important aspects related to candlenut oil processing, such as extraction technology, physicochemical properties, biodiesel production technologies, and advantages and limitations of candlenut biodiesel production are discussed. John Wiley & Sons Ltd

Bio-Based Dual-Functionalized Phase Change Composite: Ultrafast Solar-to-Thermal Conversion and Reinforced Heat Storage Capacity
Rice husk (RH) is a highly recyclable biomass and often used as biofuel. However, residual rice husk ash (RHA) from burning RH is difficult to dispose and causes a serious environment threat. In this study, high-value utility of RHA in terms of form-stable phase change materials (PCMs) was pointed out. RHA was introduced as a supporting material to encapsulate paraffin (PA) to solve the leakage of PA. In order to enhance heat storage capacity, the two-step method was proposed via a neutralization reaction and chemically hydrophobic grafting process to construct a unique RHA nanoporous structure with high adsorptivity of PA. The influence and mechanism of the surface structure and chemical properties of an RHA support on hydrophobicity were deeply discussed, in which the surface chemical structures and fractal characteristics were revealed. The results indicated that PA/bio-based RHA composites possessed enhanced enthalpies due to the synergism of pore structure enlargement and surface hydrophobization of the RHA support. Furthermore, the composite PCM showed excellent solar-to-thermal conversion and thermal cycling reliability. This work provides a new insight into the high value utilization of biomass waste RHA and the development of high performance and multifunction for PA/bio-based RHA phase change composites. American Chemical Society.

Immobilization of Candida rugosa Lipase on Magnetic Biosilica Particles: Hydrolysis and Transesterification Studies
Biodiesel is a renewable fuel used mainly in diesel engines. At the present time, biodiesel is largely produced by acid or alkali transesterification reactions. A hot spring water algae isolate “Kamptonema formosum” was cultivated at three different temperatures, and the algae oil was extracted using chloroform and methanol (v/v, 1/1 ratio) as the solvent. The maximum amount of algal biomass (1.86 g/L) was obtained at 25°C, and the extracted oil was found to be 48.7% of the total dry biomass. Diatomic earth particles (Biosilica) were magnetized via thermal co-precipitation reaction, and then it was grafted with polydopamine (MBioSi@PDA). The lipase was covalently immobilized on the surface of the MBioSi@PDA via Schiff’s base reaction. The immobilization conditions were optimized and 3.0 mg/mL as the initial lipase concentration in the immobilization medium was found to be the most favorable. At this lipase concentration, the amount of the immobilized lipase on the MBioSi@PDA particles and immobilization yield were found to be 81.9 mg/g and 67.9%, respectively. The MBioSi@PDA@lipase particles were used for conversion of K. formosum oil into biodiesel, and the conversion yield was found as 91.2% under optimum conditions. The fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) compositions of the alga oil were identified using a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). K. formosum oil mainly composed of the required fatty acids (i.e., 16 and 18 carbon long-saturated and unsaturated fatty acids) for biodiesel synthesis, and these were advantageous for synthesis of biodiesel from the algal oil., The Korean Society for Biotechnology and Bioengineering and Springer.

Photobiostimulation of Chlorella sorokiniana using light emitting diodes (LEDs) for increasing Lipid and biodiesel production
At present, the major body of research is focused on weaning the world from fossil fuels. The problem is that the world is running out of fossil fuel. Therefore, an alternative source must be identified. The biofuels are promising alternatives. In the case of petrodiesel, a promising alternative is biodiesel production from algae. The ability of microalgae to generate large quantities of lipids with a fast growth rate made them superior biodiesel producers. Using light-emitting diodes (LEDs) as an energy source in microalgal cultivation was recently increased owing to its large spectrum, endurance, and low-energy utilization. Changes in cultivation conditions, limited capabilities of harvesting light, and self-shading of microalgae were the most important problems. Therefore, the photobiostimulation of algae using LEDs radiation led to an increase in algal growth rate which results in increased lipid production. This research investigated the influence of monochromatic LEDs on the growth of Chlorella sorokiniana microalga. At the first phase, microalgae growth and algal biomass significantly increased under red LEDs [2.3 g/L], blue LEDs [1.8 g/L], green LEDs [0.7 g/L], and white LEDs (0.6) g/L as a control, respectively. At the second phase, microalgal growth and algal biomass significantly increased under red LEDs [2.9 g/L], blue LEDs 2.3 g/L, and white LEDs (1.5) g/L as a control, respectively. The percentage of extracted oil (%) or the yield of extracted oil of microalgae was 10.38 % (white LEDs), 16.94 % (blue LEDs), and 15.55 % (red LEDs) respectively. It was concluded that the photobiostimulation of algae using LEDs led to the enhanced weight of algal biomass, therefore increased of lipids and biodiesel production. The red LEDs were the best one in terms of increasing the weight of algal biomass. The blue LEDs were the best one in terms of increasing the percentage of extracted oil. However, the green LEDs were not effective. 2021 National Information and Documentation Center (NIDOC)

Utilisation of non-edible source (Pongamia pinnata seeds shells) for producing methyl esters as cleaner fuel in the presence of a novel heterogeneous catalyst synthesized from waste eggshells
Waste eggshells were considered for synthesising a precursor (CaO) for a heterogeneous catalyst, further impregnated by alkali caesium oxide (Cs2O). The following techniques were used to characterise the synthesised catalysts: X-ray Diffraction (XRD), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and Temperature Programmed Desorption (CO2-TPD). The synthesised catalyst revealed its suitability for transesterification to produce biodiesel. The biodiesel production process was optimised, and it showed that the optimal biodiesel yield is 93.59%. The optimal set of process parameters is process temperature 80◦C, process time 90 min, methanol-to-oil molar ratio 8 and catalyst loading 3 wt.%. It has been found that the high basicity of the catalyst tends to give a high biodiesel yield at low methanol-to-oil ratio 8 when the reaction time is also less (90 min). The fuel properties of biodiesel also satisfied the standard limits defined by ASTM and the EN standards. Thus, the synthesised catalyst from waste eggshells is highly active, improved the biodiesel production conditions and PPSS oil is a potential nonedible source. by the author. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Fast pyrolysis of holocellulose for the preparation of long-chain ether fuel precursors: Effect of holocellulose types
The pyrolysis behaviors of nine biomass-derived holocelluloses (from seven agricultural and two forestry residues) were studied on a thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA) and pyrolysis–gas chromatography/mass spectrometer (Py-GC/MS). The results illustrated that compared with forestry holocellulose, agricultural holocellulose had quite high ash and hemicellulose contents. Moreover, agricultural holocellulose presented lower initial temperature and maximum mass loss rate. The results of GC/MS revealed that agricultural holocellulose produced more acids, ketones, aldehydes and furans and corn stalk holocellulose led to the highest targeted compounds (ketones, aldehydes and furans with carbonyl group) content of 51.4%. Woody holocellulose was suitable for the production of sugars, particularly levoglucosan, and pine sawdust holocellulose afforded the highest levoglucosan content of 46.55%. Intriguingly, the correlation of sugars/levoglucosan content with a mass ratio of cellulose to hemicellulose (CE/HCE) was put forward.

MgO doped magnetic graphene derivative as a competent heterogeneous catalyst producing biofuels via transesterification: Process optimization through Response Surface Methodology (RSM)
In the last few decades, production of alternative fuels has been a global concern among the environmental scientists in view of scarcity of fossil fuels and increasing global warming. Biodiesels are being synthesized as green fuel by transesterification of different oils and fats over diverse synthetically developed novel heterogeneous catalysts. In this present work,a magnetically reusable hybrid nanocatalyst of basic nature has been designed for the production of biodiesels by transesteriﬁcation of waste corn oil and rapeseed oil in presence of methanol. During the synthesis of catalyst, magnetic CuFe2O4 nanoparticles were amalgamated with graphene oxide (GO) by using pistachio leaf extract and subsequently MgO nanoparticles were impregnated over it. The catalyst was physicochemically characterized by FT-IR, SEM, TEM, EDX, elemental mapping, XRD, VSM and TGA studies. The reaction parameters like reaction time, the methanol/oil molar ratio and the catalyst loading were optimized through Response Surface Methodology (RSM) using Box-Behnken experimental design. In addition, the catalysts was magnetically retrieved quite easily and reused five times in succession without considerable loss in its reactivity in the transesteriﬁcation reaction. 

Characterizing and using a new bi-functional catalyst to sustainably synthesize methyl levulinate from biomass carbohydrates
In recent years, significant attention has been dedicated to converting biomass carbohydrates into alkyl levulinates (biofuel additives) in alcoholic media, in search of various cheap and active solid catalysts through relatively easy pathways and from non-dangerous precursors. The synthesis of methyl levulinate (ML) using a new Brønsted/Lewis acid sites catalyst was investigated, emphasizing the influence of three parameters (catalyst loading, the molar concentration of fructose in methanol, and reaction temperature) on the process. The synthetized catalyst, SO42−/TiO2–La2O3 coating Fe3O4, was characterized by different techniques (FT-IR, XRD, TGA, TEM-EDX, ICP-OES). The design of the ML synthesis experiment was carried out using the Box-Behnken technique, while the response surface methodology was applied to obtain the optimized process conditions. A mathematical model of the catalytic synthesis was built, based upon first principles, and the experimental time variation of the reaction mixture concentrations was used to find, through regression, the values of the constants of a newly proposed kinetic model. 

Biodiesel preparation from Semen Abutili (Abutilon theophrasti Medic.) seed oil using low-cost liquid lipase Eversa® transform 2.0 as a catalyst
To decrease the cost of biodiesel production, undeveloped nonedible Semen Abutili seed oil (SASO) was first used as a feedstock to prepare biodiesel. Some low-cost liquid lipases were screened and used as green catalysts for biodiesel production via the ethanolysis of SASO. The effect of reaction factors on ethanolysis was optimized by the response surface methodology (RSM). The results demonstrated that SASO was a promising alternative feedstock, and Eversa® Transform 2.0 showed the best performance for biodiesel production from low-quality SASO feedstock (high FFA and phospholipid contents). In addition, Eversa® Transform 2.0 can be reused 3 times without significant loss. The influence of reaction factors on biodiesel yield decreased in the order of reaction temperature &gt; lipase load &gt; reaction time. The maximum biodiesel yield was 94.2 ± 1.3 % under the optimal conditions (lipase load 6%, water content 20 %, 7:1 (mol/mol) ethanol to SASO, 11 h, 37 °C). The kinetic parameters (Vmax and K'm) of the transesterification of SASO were 4.16 × 10−2mol/(L∙min) and 5.27 × 10-1 mol/L, respectively. The Arrhenius equation and activation energy, Ea, of Eversa® Transform 2.0-catalyzed transesterification of SASO were lnV0 = 4.8252–2382.3/T and 19.80 kJ/mol, respectively. The biodiesel produced from SASO was accordance with the ASTM D6751 standard, except for the oxidation stability. Thus, SASO, an undeveloped nonedible low-quality vegetable oil, can be used as a potential feedstock for biodiesel production, and the low-cost liquid lipase Eversa® Transform 2.0 can be used for biodiesel production. Elsevier B.V.

Application of biomass derived products in mid-size automotive industries: A review
The automotive industry is directly affected by the shortage of fossil fuels and the excessive pollution resulting from crude oil-based fuels has many adverse effects on the environment. The search for a greener and sustainable source of materials and fuels to power automobiles has ultimately led to the usage of biomass and biobased sources as the main precursor due to its graft availability and renewability. Biobased fuels developed have been shown to easily blend in with the existing automobile engines and to provide sustainable performance. Similarly, the usage of various biobased polymers, plastics, and composite materials as the structural materials for the construction of automobiles instead of crude oil sources have shown to be invaluable. The powering of automobiles with electricity is the future of the transportation industry to address the greenhouse gas emissions caused by fossil fuels. Hence, biobased lithium-ion batteries and supercapacitors have started to enter the mid-sized automotive industry. However, extensive commercialization of biobased products application in the automotive sector is underdeveloped. Hence it is customary to assess the various drawbacks of using biobased materials and identify the correct pathway for new research and development in this field. Therefore, this review covers various applications of biobased products in the automotive industries and mentions the active researches going on in this field to replace petroleum and crude oil-based sources with biobased sources. 

Furfural hydrogenation to 2-methylfuran over efficient sol-gel copper-cobalt/zirconia catalyst
2-Methylfuran (MF) is a candidate to be a high-quality fuel additive. For the first time, efficient Co-Cu/ZrO2 catalysts were prepared by the sol-gel method and herein used for MF synthesis from furfural. Although a 9.2% MF yield and no MF was obtained using Cu/ZrO2 and Co/ZrO2, respectively, a 77.5% MF yield was observed at 200°C, under 1.5 MPa initial H2 pressure for 4 hours using a Co-Cu/ZrO2 catalyst. The Co amount was changed in the catalyst structure and the effect of the Co amount on furfural hydrogenation was investigated. The most effective catalyst was the Co-Cu/ZrO2 catalyst, with 0.08 g/g (8 mass%) Cu and 0.118 g/g (11.8 mass%) Co. The activity tests of the catalysts were carried out for hydrogenation of furfural to MF by changing reaction parameters such as pressure, loading of catalyst, temperature, and time. A 94.1% MF yield was achieved in the presence of the Co-Cu/ZrO2 catalyst with 0.08 g/g (8 mass%) Cu and 0.118 g/g (11.8 mass%) Co at 200°C for 6 hours under 1.5 MPa H2 pressure. The catalyst also showed good reusability properties after the fifth use. The catalysts were characterized by Brunauer-Emmet-Teller method, X-ray diffraction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and temperature programmed reduction techniques. Canadian Society for Chemical Engineering

Lignin to Monoaromatics with a Carbon-Nanofiber-Supported Ni-CeO2-xCatalyst Synthesized in a One-Pot Hydrothermal Process
The synthesis of effective heterogeneous catalysts is one of the main challenges toward hydrothermal processing of wood-derived biomass into marketable sustainable chemicals. Many of these catalysts are based on noble metals and are normally synthesized using multiple steps in time-consuming processes. Here, we have developed a one-pot catalyst synthesis method for Ni-CeO2-xsupported on carbon nanofibers.In situH2production through formic acid decomposition enabled the synthesis of catalysts in their reduced form, with ceria as Ce3+and presence of metallic Ni. This catalyst promoted Kraft lignin conversion in supercritical water at short reaction times with a 79 wt % yield of a bio-oil composed of nearly 69 wt % of monoaromatics. Thus, lignin breakdown was achieved without resourcing to noble metal catalysts, molecular H2, or cosolvents, with a decrease in catalyst synthesis time and unit operations and with an attractive yield of a chemically uniform product fraction. American Chemical Society

Supercritical water gasification (SCWG) as a potential tool for the valorization of phycoremediation-derived waste algal biomass for biofuel generation
Phycoremediation is an emerging technology, where algae-based processes were used to effectively remove nutrients, organic wastes, and toxic heavy metals from the polluted environment. The waste algal biomass obtained after phycoremediation, which may contain residual hazardous materials, could still be used as feedstock to produce biofuels/bioenergy preferably through thermochemical conversion technology. This review proposes a synergistic approach by utilizing the phycoremediation-derived algal biomass (PCDA) as feedstock for efficient hazardous waste treatment and clean energy generation via supercritical water gasification (SCWG). The review provides an in-depth study of catalytic, non-catalytic, and continuous SCWG of algal biomass, aiming to lay out the foundations for future study. In addition, the concepts of heat integration as well as water, nutrient, and CO2 recycling were introduced for a sustainable algae-to-biofuel process, which significantly enhances the overall energy and material efficiency of SCWG. The production of biofuel from algal biomass via other advanced gasification technologies, such as integration with other thermochemical conversion techniques, co-gasification, chemical looping gasification (CLG), and integrated gasification and combined cycle (IGCC) were also discussed. Furthermore, the discussion of kinetics and thermodynamics models, as well as life cycle and techno-economic assessments, appear to provide insights for future commercial applications. Elsevier B.V.

Synthesis and structural characterization of energy crop peelu methyl esters, using hybrid metallic nano-particles. A step forward to bioenergy industry
In the present research project, the energy crop peelu non-edible oil was investigated as a potential source for fatty acid methyl esters production, using hybrid metallic nano-particles. The energy crop peelu is an evergreen shrubby plant distributed throughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Naturally, the plant has having a worthy fates masses, had proceeded an optimum results for quantitative and qualitative methyl esters production, using hybrid metallic nano-particles poly-N-isopropylacrylamide “PNIPAM-Cu, PNIPAM-Pd & PNIPAM-Cu@Pd”. Whereas, the carboxyl functionalized P(NIPAM) microgels was synthesized via soap free emulsion polymerization, containing poly-N-isopropyl acrylamide and acrylic acid. The proposed thiol group was then introduced via carbodiimide mediated imide bond between the carboxyl group of carboxyl functionalized microgels and the amine from amino-ethanethiol. The Copper, Palladium and Copper@Palladium nano-particles were mixed-up into thiol-functionalized Poly-N-isopropylacrylamide microgels through metals thiol linkage. The hybrid metallic nano-particles were characterized using Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) & Fourier Transfer Infra-Red (FT-IR) for rectification. The experimentation protocol for methyl esters synthesis using various concentrations of hybrid metallic nano-particles in conversion was adjusted to 1:6 oil to methanol molar ratio, temperature 60 °C and reaction time 2 h and stirring 600 rpm, respectively. The optimum yield of methyl esters was reported 92.20 against 1.5gm PNIPAM-Cu@Pd nano-particle. The chemical and structural status of synthesized methyl esters were characterized by Gas Chromatography & Mass Spectroscopy (GC&MS), FT-IR & Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) NMR spectroscopes. The physico-chemical properties of peelu crop methyl esters were analyzed, checked and compared with the international American Standards for Testing Materials (ASTM) & European Union (EN) standards, accordingly. 

Role of ZnO and Fe2O3 nanoparticle on synthetic saline wastewater on growth, nutrient removal and lipid content of Chlorella vulgaris for sustainable production of biofuel
The current investigation highlighted the capability of the Chlorella vulgaris growth in the artificial wastewater with different concentration of NaCl incorporated with difference concentration of nanoparticle ZnO and Fe2O3. Chlorella vulgaris cultured with ZnO and Fe2O3 at the concentration of 5 mg/L, 10 mg/L, 20 mg/L and 50 mg/L. The characterization of the nanoparticles was performed through analytical technique. This study found that, the nutrient removal was effective on ZnO compared to Fe2O3 against total nitrogen and total phosphorous. Further, the NaCl concentration in the wastewater affects the growth of the microalgae and biofuel production. With regard to the biomass concentration, the 20 mg/L ZnO and 50 mg/L Fe2O3 reported highest yield of 2.08 g/L and 2.02 g/L. On the other hand, the maximum lipid accumulation of ZnO and Fe2O3 were 14.25 wt% and 13.8 wt%. Secondly, the procured lipids were processed through transesterification process and characterized by Gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC–MS). Compelling all the above it is concluded that the Chlorella vulgaris can be the suitable candidate for treatment of wastewater and production of bio-fuel.

Presenting porous-organic-polymers as next-generation invigorating materials for nanoreactors
Porous organic polymers (POPs) represent an emerging class of porous organic materials which mainly comprise organic building blocks that are interconnected via strong covalent bonds, thereby offering highly cross-linked frameworks with rigid structures and specific void spaces for accommodating guest molecules. In the past few years, POPs have garnered colossal research interest as nanoreactors for heterogeneous catalysis (thermal, photochemical, electrochemical, etc.) because of their intriguing characteristic features, such as high thermal and chemical stabilities, adjustable chemical functionalities, large surface areas, and tunable pore size distributions. This feature article provides an overview of existing research relating to diverse POP synthetic approaches (COFs, CTFs, and some amorphous POPs), the possible modification of the functionality of POPs, and their exciting application as next-generation nanoreactors. These POPs are extremely interesting, as they offer the potential for either metal-free or metalated polymer catalysts allowing photocatalytic CO2 reduction to solar-fuel, biofuel upgrades, the conversion of waste cooking oil to bio-oil, and clean H2 production from water, addressing many scientific and technological challenges and providing new opportunities for various specific topics in catalysis. Finally, we emphasize that the integration of various synthetic approaches and the application of POPs as nanoreactors will provide opportunities in the near future for the precision synthesis of functional materials with significant impact in both basic and applied research areas. This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry.

The conundrum of waste cooking oil: Transforming hazard into energy
Waste cooking oil (WCO) is considered as one of the hazardous wastes because improper disposal of WCO can cause significant environmental problems such as blockages of drains and sewers as well as water or soil pollution. In this review, the physical and chemical properties of WCO are evaluated along with its regulations and policies in different countries to promote WCO refined biofuels. Blended WCO can be an auxiliary fuel for municipal solid waste incinerators while the heat produced is able to form superheated steam and subsequently generate electricity via combined heat and power system. Also, WCO contains high ratio of hydrogen atoms compared to carbon and oxygen atoms, making it able to be catalytically cracked, synthesizing hydrogen gas. WCO-based biodiesel has been traditionally produced by transesterification in order to substitute petroleum-based diesel which has non-degradability as well as non-renewable features. Hence, the potentials of hazardous WCO as a green alternative energy source for electricity generation, hydrogen gas as well as biofuels production (e.g. biodiesel, biogas, biojet fuel) are critically discussed due to its attractive psychochemical properties as well as its economic feasibility. Challenges of the WCO utilization as a source of energy are also reported while highlighting its future prospects. Elsevier B.V.

A review on the efficient catalysts for algae transesterification to biodiesel
The depletion of fossil fuel resources and increasing environmental pollution led to a trend for using alternative, clean, green, and sustainable fuel and energy resources. To attain this aim, using biomass as an alternative resource for diesel production has been a hotspot among researchers. Biodiesel has several advantages, such as being lower toxic and more renewable, and eco-friendlier than diesel from fossil fuel resources. Several edible and non-edible bio-sources were used for the production of biodiesel from the transesterification process. Algal oil as a non-edible source is considered an abundant, low cost and green substrate for biodiesel production. Various factors such as reaction conditions and the type of catalyst affect the biodiesel production process. Different catalytic systems such as basic and acidic homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts and biocatalysts were introduced for the process in the literature, and each proposed catalyst has its own advantages and disadvantages. For instance, in spite of the lower cost and better mass transfer of base and acid homogeneous catalysts, reaction system corrosion, non-reusability, and soap formation are serious challenges of these catalysts at an industrial scale. On the other hand, acid and base heterogenous catalysts overcame the issues of corrosion and recovery, but some matters such as mass transfer limitation, high cost, and weak performance in catalyzing both esterification of FFAs and transesterification of lipids must be taken into account. In addition, bio-catalysis as a high-cost process led to a purer product formation with less side reaction. Therefore, several significant factors should be considered for transesterification catalysts such as availability, cost, reusability, stability, mass transfer, and the possibility to manage both the transesterification of triglycerides and the esterification of FFAs, selecting a catalyst with predominant pros is viable. Here, a review of the biodiesel production from algal biomass focusing on the efficient catalyst of the process is presented. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

The Effect of Sulfonate Groups in the Structure of Porous Aromatic Frameworks on the Activity of Platinum Catalysts Towards Hydrodeoxygenation of Biofuel Components
Abstract: Platinum catalysts based on porous aromatic frameworks (PAF-30 and PAF-30–SO3H) have been synthesized. Properties of the obtained catalysts have been assessed via hydrogenation of guaiacol, veratrole, and pyrocatechol at 250°С and hydrogen pressure 3.0 MPa in isopropanol medium. It has been shown that the presence of acidic sites in the catalyst significantly increases the yield of deoxygenation products. The effect of the substrate structure on the rate of its hydrodeoxygenation and the mechanism of the occurring processes have been studied. [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

Cobalt/nitrogen doped porous carbon as catalysts for efficient oxygen reduction reaction: Towards hybrid enzymatic biofuel cells
Electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) represents a crucial cathodic process of different fuel cells. The development of highly active and stable noble metal-free ORR electrocatalysts remains as one of major challenges. Herein, we report cobalt/nitrogen co-doped porous carbon materials (Co-N-C) originated from well-designed bimetal-organic frameworks (Zn100-xCox-ZIF) as efficient ORR electrocatalysts in both pH-neutral and alkaline solutions. The compositional and structural features, and the corresponding ORR activity can be tailored by tuning the Zn/Co ratio in the precursor. Remarkable features of large surface-area and suitable graphitization degree and well-dispersed Co-N-C moieties, enable a high catalytic efficiency. The optimized electrocatalyst registers considerable ORR performance with a high half-wave potential of 0.65 V vs RHE and a saturated current density of 5.30 mA cm−2 close to the value of the commercial Pt/C in 0.1 M pH 7.0 PBS, along with considerable operational stability and tolerance to glucose. A preliminary one-compartment hybrid glucose/O2 enzymatic biofuel cell, consisting of the Co-N-C-10 abiotic cathode and a glucose oxidizing bioanode, is constructed and tested. Furthermore, Co-N-C presents reasonable ORR electrocatalytic activity and operational stability in alkaline condition.

Techno-economic feasibility analysis of engineered energycane-based biorefinery co-producing biodiesel and ethanol
High feedstock cost and low oil yields per unit of land from temperate oilseed crops limit the growth of commercial-scale biodiesel production. Recently, highly productive crops, such as sugarcane and energycane, have been engineered to accumulate triacylglycerides (TAGs) that allow the production of far more industrial vegetable oil than previously possible. A proof-of-concept suggests that biodiesel production from engineered energycane will be possible. However, before making efforts for scale-up, it is critical to understand the commercial feasibility and economic competitiveness of this process. This study performs techno-economic analysis of a unique biorefinery processing energycane to co-produce biodiesel and ethanol. Comprehensive process simulation models were developed for two scenarios: (i) biodiesel from TAGs and ethanol from fermentation of sugars in juice and (ii) biodiesel from TAGs and ethanol from fermentation of sugars in juice and hydrolysis of carbohydrates in bagasse. Based on the target levels, the analysis was performed for energycane containing 0%, 5%, and 7.7% TAGs (d.b.). The biodiesel from engineered energycane was found economically viable and competitive to soybean biodiesel. Although the capital investment is higher compared to the soybean biodiesel plant, the biodiesel production costs ($0.66–$0.9/L) were lower than soybean biodiesel ($0.91/L). Biorefinery-scenario-1 processing energycane containing 7.7% TAG produces biodiesel with profitability (IRR 7.84) slightly lower than soybean biodiesel (IRR 8.3), but yields five times of biodiesel per unit land and is self-sustainable for energy requirements. The surplus electricity can displace fossil electricity and provide environmental benefits. Monte Carlo simulation indicated that biorefinery is profitable with a 29%–65% probability (NPV > 0) which is largely controlled by feedstock composition and biodiesel market price. It is important to note that energycane can be grown on the marginal rainfed lands in S.E. USA, where soybean would not be viable. Biodiesel from engineered energycane would therefore be complementary to soydiesel in the United States. The Authors. GCB Bioenergy published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Production optimization of Vateria Indica biodiesel and performance evaluation of its blends on compression ignition engine
The rapid depletion of fossil fuels and the increasing levels of exhaust gas emissions have paved the way for researchers to focus their attention on alternative fuels. One such potential alternative source of fuel is biodiesel. In the light of the search for newer fuels, the present work focuses on Vateria Indica biodiesel that is found widely in Western Ghats of India and Srilanka. The work reports on the extraction of Vateria Indica oil, preparation of its biodiesel and performance testing of biodiesel blends on compression ignition engine (diesel engine). The oil and biodiesel yields have been optimized by Response Surface Methodology (RSM) and are found to be 23% and 85% respectively. The performance test results of Vateria Indica biodiesel blends on diesel engine have indicated that the brake thermal efficiency (BTE) was found to be lower and the brake specific fuel consumption (BSFC) was found to be higher for B10 (90% diesel+10% biodiesel), B20 (80% diesel+20% biodiesel) and B30 (70% diesel+30% biodiesel) blends compared to neat diesel. The performance characteristics of B10 blend were very close to neat diesel. The combustion characteristics of biodiesel blends were found to be superior compared to neat diesel. The B30 blend has better combustion characteristics compared to B10 and B20 blends. The emissions of unburnt hydrocarbons (UBHC), carbon monoxide (CO) and smoke were lower, and oxides of nitrogen (NOX) were higher for all the blends of biodiesel compared to neat diesel. Elsevier B.V.

Insight into the catalytic properties zeolitized kaolinite/diatomite geopolymer as an environmental catalyst for the sustainable conversion of spent cooking oil into biodiesel; optimization and kinetics
Inorganic zeolite/geopolymer composite (Z/GP) was synthesized by controlled zeolitization of synthetic geopolymer from kaolinite and diatomite to be used as a potential catalyst in the transesterification of commercial spent cooking oil (SCO). The Z/GP composite demonstrates promising microstructural properties (106 m2/g surface area and 4.2 nm average pore diameter) and chemical structural enrich in OH and Na+ ions as active basic and catalytic centers. The Z/GP composite as catalyst was applied in the transesterification of SCO according to suggested experiment conditions from statistical design which was built based on the Response Surface Methodology. The measured biodiesel yield from SCO over Z/GP catalyst is 98.1% at experimental conditions of 40 °C as temperature, 90 min as time, 12:1 as methanol/SCO ratio, and 3.25 wt, % as Z/GP loading value. The theoretical optimization function of the statistical design suggested potential enhancement for the performance of the reaction to achieve a yield of 99% by adjusting the values of the studied factors at 54.9 °C, 81.9 min, at 12:1, and 3.48 wt, % for the temperature, time, methanol/SCO ratio, and Z/GP loading. The physical properties of the produced SCO-based biodiesel over Z/GP demonstrate the suitability of the product to be used as biofuels considering the criteria to international standards. The kinetic properties of the transesterification reactions of SCO over Z/GP catalyst follow the Pseudo-First order kinetic assumption and occurred with low activation energy. Finally, the synthetic Z/GP as a solid basic catalyst is of significant reusability and reused five times with remarkable biodiesel yields. Elsevier B.V.

Design of transition metal oxides nanosheets for the direct electrocatalytic oxidation of glucose
The design of the morphology-controlled synthesis of two-dimensional (2D) transition metal oxides nanomaterials is a key for electrochemical oxidation of glucose. Herein, a general preparation method is adopted to develop a variety of transition metal oxides nanosheets, including cobalt oxide nanosheets (Co3O4 NS), nickel oxide nanosheets (NiO NS), copper oxide nanosheets (CuO NS), and iron oxide nanosheets (Fe3O4 NS) through a chemical reduction method followed by a hydrothermal strategy. The surface morphological characterization is performed by using transmission electron microscopic (TEM), high resolution transmission electron microscopic (HRTEM), and atomic force microscopic (AFM) measurements, revealed the two-dimensional nanosheets-like metal oxides formed. The as-developed transition metal oxide nanosheets are employed as electrocatalysts for the improved oxidation of glucose under alkaline electrolyte. The NiO nanosheets delivers best catalytic current density of ~3.1 mA cm−2 which is over- ~1.7- and ~2.6- times higher with a less positive potential, respectively in comparison to Co3O4 nanosheets and CuO nanosheets based electrodes. The morphological engineered two-dimensional nanosheets exhibit high electrochemical active sites, fast electron transfer kinetics, etc. towards the glucose oxidation reaction (GOR). Elsevier B.V.

High-performance magnetite nanoparticles catalyst for biodiesel production: Immobilization of 12-tungstophosphoric acid on SBA-15 works effectively
Magnetic mesoporous solid acid catalysts, designed as Fe3O4@SBA-15@HPW and Fe3O4@SBA-15-NH2-HPW, were prepared for the production of biodiesel by the transesterification of palm oil with methanol. The magnetic mesoporous carrier was modified by two different methods: post-gifting method and impregnation method. The structure of the catalysts was characterized by SEM, TEM, XRD, FT-IR, VSM, Pyridine-FT-IR, N2 adsorption-desorption and TGA. The results indicated that they all had ordered mesoporous and excellent paramagnetic. Both Fe3O4@SBA-15@HPW and Fe3O4@SBA-15-NH2-HPW had high content of Brønsted acid sites due to the loading of 12-tungstophosphoric acid, which made the two catalysts very active. Particularly, Fe3O4@SBA-15-NH2-HPW was very efficient in the transesterification of palm oil with methanol and gave a more than 91% biodiesel yield when the reaction was carried out at 150 °C with a 4 wt% catalyst amount at 20:1 methanol/oil molar ratio for 5 h Fe3O4@SBA-15-NH2-HPW prepared by the grafting method exhibited higher reusability, and the yield of biodiesel was more than 80% after 6 times cycles, which made the catalyst have an excellent industrial application prospect. 

Sono-modified halloysite nanotube with NaAlO2 as novel heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel production: Optimization via GA_BP neural network
This work reported the one-pot synthesis of the promising, cheap and green heterogeneous nanocatalyst for biodiesel production. The halloysite nanotube (HNT) was impregnated with 40 wt% NaAlO2 (SA) and the assistance of ultrasonic helped to achieve a better and more stable modification. The resulting 0.4SA/HNTs-UI catalyst was applied in catalyzing the transesterification of palm oil with methanol, using a GA_BP neural network to train and predict the optimal values of reaction parameters. The test results proved the prediction accuracy of the model with R2 = 0.989. The catalyst possessed excellent performance, and the maximum biodiesel yield of 99.15% was achieved with the catalyst loaded amount of 8.82 wt%, methanol to oil molar ratio of 16.79 and transesterification temperature of 65.12 °C. Besides, the physicochemical properties of the purified transesterification product were in accordance with the ASTM D 6751 standard of biodiesel. 

Artificial neural network approach for parametric investigation of biodiesel synthesis using biocatalyst and engine characteristics of diesel engine fuelled with Aegle Marmelos Correa biodiesel
In this present study, biodiesel was produced from an eco-friendly and non-edible AMC seed oil using a biocatalyst. The optimum biodiesel yield was obtained as 92% by undergoing microwave transesterification with 20 min time, 4.5 wt% catalyst amount and 1:12 oil-methanol ratio at 55 °C. The activation energy needed for the reaction was 51.9 kJ/mol. The thermodynamic parameters for the transesterification process, such as enthalpy and entropy were 56.4 kJ/mol and −0.091 kJ/mol. Further, the engine studies were carried out for different fuel injection pressures and injection timing. Performance results reveal that BSEC and BTE of biodiesel are lower and higher than that of diesel fuel for 400 bar FIP and 27° CA bTDC FIT at full load respectively. However, except NO, composite emissions of CO, UBHC and dry soot are comparatively lesser than that of standard emission norms. It is thereby inferred from the experimental results that the optimum fuel injection pressure and timing are 400 bar and 27° CA bTDC. The developed ANN model precisely predicted the out data with a higher R2 value for biodiesel synthesis and engine characteristics. Hence, it can be concluded that ANN is the best tool for predicting output data. 

Synthesis of biodiesel from non-edible (Brachychiton populneus) oil in the presence of nickel oxide nanocatalyst: Parametric and optimisation studies
The present study defines a novel green method for the synthesis of the nickel oxide nanocatalyst by using an aqueous latex extract of the Ficus elastic. The catalyst was examined for the conversion of novel Brachychiton populneus seed oil (BPSO) into biodiesel. The Brachychiton populneus seeds have a higher oil content (41 wt%) and free fatty acid value (3.8 mg KOH/g). The synthesised green nanocatalyst was examined by the Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, energy dispersive X-Ray (EDX) spectroscopy, X-Ray diffraction (XRD) spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The obtained results show that the synthesised green nanocatalyst was 22–26 nm in diameter and spherical-cubic in shape with a higher rate of catalytic efficiency. It was utilised further for the conversion of BPSO into biofuel. Due to the high free fatty acid value, the biodiesel was synthesised by the two-step process, i.e., pretreatment of the BPSO by means of acid esterification and then followed by the transesterification reaction. The acidic catalyst (H2SO4) was used for the pretreatment of BPSO. The optimum condition for the transesterification of the pretreated BPSO was 1:9 of oil-methanol molar ratio, 2.5 wt % of prepared nanocatalyst concentration and 85 °C of reaction temperature corresponding to the highest biodiesel yield of 97.5 wt%. The synthesised biodiesel was analysed by the FT-IR and GC-MS technique to determine the chemical composition of fatty acid methyl esters. Fuel properties of Brachychiton populneus seed oil biodiesel (BPSOB) were also examined, compared, and it falls in the prescribed range of ASTM standards. 

Understanding the geometric and electronic factors of PtNi bimetallic surfaces for efficient and selective catalytic hydrogenation of biomass-derived oxygenates
Ni-base catalysts are promising candidate for the hydrogenation of furfural (FAL) to high-value chemicals. However, slow intermediate desorption and low selectivity limit its implementation. Identifying the catalytic performance of each active sites is vital to design hydrogenation catalyst, and tuning the geometrical sites at molecule level in PtNi could lead to the modification of electronic structure, and thus the selectity for the hydrogenation of FAL was modulated. Herein, PtNi hollow nanoframes (PtNi HNFs) with three dimensional (3D) molecular accessibility were synthesized, EDX results suggested that Ni was evenly distributed inside of the hollow nanoframes, whereas Pt was relatively concentrated at the edges. DFT calculation demonstrated that PtNi significant decrease the desorption energy of the intermediates. This strategy could not only enhance the desorption of intermediates to improve the catalytic performance, but also transfer the adsorption mode of FAL on catalyst surface to selective hydrogenation of FAL to FOL or THFA. The PtNi HNFs catalyst afforded excellent catalytic performance for selective hydrogenation of a broad range of biomass-derived platform chemicals under mild conditions, especially of FAL to furfuryl alcohol (FOL), in quantitative FOL yields (99%) with a high TOF of 2.56 h−1. It is found that the superior performance of PtNi HNFs is attributed to its 3D hierarchical structure and synergistic electronic effects between Pt and Ni. Besides, the kinetic study demonstrated that the activation energy for hydrogenation of FAL was as low as 54.95 kJ mol−1. Science Press

Cooperative Effects between Ni-Mo Alloy Sites and Defective Structures over Hierarchical Ni-Mo Bimetallic Catalysts Enable the Enhanced Hydrodeoxygenation Activity
Currently, the rational design of non-noble metal catalysts for highly efficient biomass upgrading into biofuels and chemicals is quite desired. In this regard, tuning the oxophilic property of catalysts can significantly impact their activity and selectivities to target deoxygenated products in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin-derived phenolics. Herein, MoOx-decorated bimetallic Ni-Mo catalysts with a unique hierarchical flower-like micro/nanostructure were fabricated via a facile dopamine-assisted hydrothermal approach and adopted in the HDO of guaiacol to produce cyclohexane. By adjusting the content of Mo species, the bimetallic Ni-Mo catalyst with a Mo/Ni molar ratio of 0.1 exhibited a superior catalytic HDO performance to the Mo-free one, as well as Al2O3-supported Ni and bimetallic Ni-Mo ones prepared by the impregnation method. Combining various comprehensive structural characterization methods and catalytic HDO tests with density functional theory calculations, it was unveiled that surface defective MoOx species in the vicinity of metallic sites could greatly promote the demethoxylation of guaiacol or reaction intermediates, while Ni-Mo alloy sites could promote the dehydroxylation of cyclohexanol intermediates. Therefore, a perfect catalytic cooperative effect between Ni-Mo alloy sites and defective MoOx structures played crucial roles in accelerating the demethoxylation and dehydroxylation processes in the HDO of guaiacol. The present surface defect-bimetal engineering approach provides a promising guide for constructing highly efficient bimetallic catalysts for the upgrading of biomass-derived phenolics. American Chemical Society.

MOF-Encapsulating Metal-Acid Interfaces for Efficient Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Biomass-Derived Aromatic Aldehydes
Developing an efficient and selective catalyst for C-O hydrogenolysis of biomass-derived aromatic aldehydes, such as 5-methylfurfural (MF), 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), and vanillin (VA), is highly significant for the synthesis of biofuel and fine chemicals. Herein, metal-organic framework (MOF)-encapsulating metal-acid interfaces (Pd@UiO-CH2SO3H, Pd@UiO-PhSO3H) were first reported. Compared with traditionally supported catalysts (Pd/UiO-SO3H, Pd/UiO-NH2), Pd-acid-interface-encapsulated MOFs show much higher activity and selectivity for MF to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF), HMF to DMF, and VA to 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) reactions. In particular, Pd@UiO-SO3H shows the best catalytic performance with 89.0 and 86.0% DMF yield from MF and HMF and a 99.4% MMP yield from VA based on its suitable hydrophilicity, high hydrogen activation ability, and abundant Pd-SO3H interface active sites. According to the catalytic performance of Pd/UiO-NH2 and the results of an ATR-IR test, the acidic sites on the Pd-acid interface can accelerate the activation of the hydroxyl group for these hydrogenolysis reactions. This work provides an effective design strategy for the preparation of MOF-encapsulating metal-acid interfaces and shows the powerful synergistic effect of hydrogenation and acid catalysis. 

Pyrolysis of Aesculus chinensis Bunge Seed with Fe2O3/NiO as nanocatalysts for the production of bio-oil material
The rapid thermal cracking technology of biomass can convert biomass into bio-oil and is beneficial for industrial applications. Agricultural and forestry wastes are important parts of China's energy, and their high-grade utilization is useful to solve the problem of energy shortages and environmental pollution. To the best of our knowledge, the impact of nanocatalysts on converting biowastes for bio-oil has not been studied. Consequently, we examined the production of bio-oil by pyrolysis of Aesculus chinensis Bunge Seed (ACBS) using nanocatalysts (Fe2O3 and NiO catalysts) for the first time. The pyrolysis products of ACBS include 1-hydroxy-2-propanone (3.97%), acetic acid (5.42%), and furfural (0.66%). These chemical components can be recovered for use as chemical feedstock in the form of bio-oil, thus indicating the potential of ACBS as a feedstock to be converted by pyrolysis to produce value-added bio-oil. The Fe2O3 and NiO catalysts enhanced the pyrolysis process, which accelerated the precipitation of gaseous products. The pyrolysis rates of the samples gradually increased at DTGmax, effectively promoting the catalytic cracking of ACBS, which is beneficial to the development and utilization of ACBS to produce high valorization products. Combining ACBS and nanocatalysts can change the development direction of high valorization agricultural and forestry wastes in the future. Elsevier B.V.

Neuro fuzzy estimation of the most influential parameters for Kusum biodiesel performance
In order to reduce cost of biodiesel production there is need to use non-edible oil. Kusum feed oil is non-edible oil, low cost and substantial available for biodiesel production. To improve Kusum biodiesel performance and emission parameters there is need to analyze input variables in more comprehensive way. It is suitable to establish computational models to obtain optimal parameters. The main goal of the paper was to establish and adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) to determine the impact of blending, fuel injection timing, fuel injection pressure and engine load on brake thermal efficiency, unburnt hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen. It was found that the fuel injection pressure and engine load is the most influential factors on the brake thermal efficiency, unburnt hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen. The results could be useful for optimization of the Kusum biodiesel performance and emission parameters. 

Potential vs prevalent vs popular vs proven biodiesel feedstocks: A critical 4P selection process
Due to severe geopolitical uncertainty, tensions between nations that produces fuel/oil, and trade sanctions, almost no nation can guarantee a consistent fuel supply and that can affect the progress or development of countries significantly as fuel is the backbone of the energy supply. Counties are exploring different alternative energy sources that can be sustainable and locally available. Waste-based biofuel, i.e., biodiesel, can be an excellent cheap alternative to diminish the fuel supply–demand conflict and can also play an important role in mitigating the adverse effects of greenhouse gas emissions in the environment. This study focuses on four biodiesel feedstocks that are classified as having the most potential (microalgae oil), being the most prevalent (palm oil), the most popular (soybean oil), and the most proven (coconut oil) identified by the current researchers. The Scopus research database recognises these biodiesel feedstocks. The ranking among these studied biodiesel feedstocks is focused on technical, economic, environmental, and social aspects with eighteen criteria. There are five weighting methods used in this study, namely EQUAL, Criteria importance through intercriteria correlation (CRITIC), ENTROPY, Analytical hierarchical process (AHP), and Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchical Process (FAHP). Five multiple criteria decision analysis processes, namely PROMETHEE, Weighted sum method (WSM), Weighted product method (WPM), Technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution (TOPSIS), and VIse Kriterijumska Optimizacija Kompromisno Resenje (VIKOR) are applied for ranking these feedstocks. The results reveal that Coconut oil rated the best followed by Microalgae and Palm oil, whereas Soybean was considered to be the worst performer among those feedstocks. This ranking of biodiesel feedstocks is important for commercialisation purposes as well as providing a clear picture to the researchers, scientists, policymakers, and Government stakeholders. 

Tuning the porosity of sulfur-resistant Pd-Pt/MCM-41 bimetallic catalysts for partial hydrogenation of soybean oil-derived biodiesel
Partial hydrogenation of soybean oil-derived fatty acid methyl esters was studied using MCM-41 mesoporous silica-supported Pd-Pt bimetallic catalysts with tunable porosity under mild reaction conditions (100 °C, 0.4 MPa H2, 4 h). This process produced partially hydrogenated fatty acid methyl esters (H-FAME) as a new type of high-quality biodiesel fuel enriched in monounsaturated fatty acid methyl esters (mono-FAME), which is a potential source for formulating high blends of biodiesel fuel with petrodiesel. MCM-41 supports with various structural properties and morphologies were synthesized by self-assembly with different amounts of ammonia solution as a mineralizing agent. Bimetallic Pd-Pt nanoparticles with a Pd/Pt atomic ratio of 4 were stepwise impregnated on three MCM-41 supports, resulting in a series of Pd-Pt/MCM-41 bimetallic catalysts with tunable porosity (0.89–1.79 cm3 g−1), average pore size (3.2–8.5 nm), and particle size (0.12–0.62 μm). The Pd-Pt/MCM-41 catalyst prepared with the least amount of ammonia produced the best partial hydrogenation conversion of polyunsaturated FAME into mono-FAME, ascribed to nano-aggregation resulting in a dual-pore system containing large pores for fast molecular diffusion; a high turnover frequency (1920 h−1), larger k1 rate constant (0.60 gcat−1h−1), and smaller k2 rate constant (0.37 gcat−1h−1) were obtained. Furthermore, this Pd-Pt/MCM-41 catalyst exhibited excellent sulfur resistance in the synthesis of H-FAME, even though the feedstocks contained approximately 5 ppm of sulfur contaminates. These results demonstrate that the sulfur-resistant Pd-Pt/MCM-41 bimetallic catalysts with stable and dual pore system are beneficial for obtaining higher quality BDF to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. 

Catalytic transfer hydrogenation of ethyl levulinate to γ-valerolactone over supported MoS2catalysts
The hydrogenation of levulinate esters to γ-valerolactone (GVL) is an important step in the transformation of biomass into biofuels. It is attractive to develop new efficient systems for the catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) of levulinate esters to value-added GVL. In this work, a series of MoS2-based supported catalysts were prepared via an impregnation method for the CTH of biomass-derived ethyl levulinate (EL) to GVL. By comprehensive characterization and catalytic measurements, we found that the CTH activity of EL to GVL is closely related to the MoS2 morphology and acid distribution on the support. Among the catalysts with different supports, the AC support with abundant Lewis acid sites and large surface area facilitated the high dispersion of low stacked MoS2 slabs, and the MoS2-acid synergistic catalysis contributed to the superior activity and selectivity. The conversion of EL and the selectivity of GVL reached 97.2% and 91.2% under optimized conditions over the MoS2/AC catalyst (230 °C, 1 MPa H2, 1.5 h), respectively. We also conducted reaction kinetic experiments to reveal the relationship between the active site of the MoS2/AC catalyst and its catalytic performance, and the plausible reaction pathway and mechanism over MoS2/AC was proposed. The catalytic performance gradually declined during recycling tests due to the oxidation of MoS2 and can be easily recovered by resulfuration. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Production and characterization of diesel mixtures with corn oil biodiesel [Produção e caracterização das misturas do diesel com biodiesel de óleo de milho]
Global energy demand has increased significantly and nations have come to depend on petroleum as their primary energy source. However, the use of this raw material tends to have limitations regarding long-term availability. Thus, the study of different raw materials for the production of renewable fuels is of great importance. The present study had as objective the production of biodiesel from corn and the study of the physicochemical characteristics of the diesel-biodiesel mixtures in the proportions of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80 % and 90%. Biodiesel was produced by methyl route, using sodium hydroxide (NaOH) as a catalyst. The transesterification took place under magnetic stirring, respecting the proportion of 6 moles of methyl alcohol to 1 mole of vegetable oil, 1% of NaOH in volumetric basis and stirring time of 60 minutes. An increase in specific mass and kinematic viscosity was observed in relation to the proportion of biodiesel in the blends. The results indicated that the production of biodiesel from corn oil had a satisfactory average yield of 94.29% and that only the diesel-biodiesel blends B10, B20, B30, B40 and B50 presented specific mass and kinematic viscosity in patterns consistent with the norm. University Center of Maringa. All rights reserved.

Bifunctional Metal Meshes Acting as a Semipermeable Membrane and Electrode for Sensitive Electrochemical Determination of Volatile Compounds
The monitoring of toxic inorganic gases and volatile organic compounds has brought the development of field-deployable, sensitive, and scalable sensors into focus. Here, we attempted to meet these requirements by using concurrently microhole-structured meshes as (i) a membrane for the gas diffusion extraction of an analyte from a donor sample and (ii) an electrode for the sensitive electrochemical determination of this target with the receptor electrolyte at rest. We used two types of meshes with complementary benefits, i.e., Ni mesh fabricated by robust, scalable, and well-established methods for manufacturing specific designs and stainless steel wire mesh (SSWM), which is commercially available at a low cost. The diffusion of gas (from a donor) was conducted in headspace mode, thus minimizing issues related to mesh fouling. When compared with the conventional polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) membrane, both the meshes (40 μm hole diameter) led to a higher amount of vapor collected into the electrolyte for subsequent detection. This inedited fashion produced a kind of reverse diffusion of the analyte dissolved into the electrolyte (receptor), i.e., from the electrode to bulk, which further enabled highly sensitive analyses. Using Ni mesh coated with Ni(OH)2 nanoparticles, the limit of detection reached for ethanol was 24-fold lower than the data attained by a platform with a PTFE membrane and placement of the electrode into electrolyte bulk. This system was applied in the determination of ethanol in complex samples related to the production of ethanol biofuel. It is noteworthy that a simple equation fitted by machine learning was able to provide accurate assays (accuracies from 97 to 102%) by overcoming matrix effect-related interferences on detection performance. Furthermore, preliminary measurements demonstrated the successful coating of the meshes with gold films as an alternative raw electrode material and the monitoring of HCl utilizing Au-coated SSWMs. These strategies extend the applicability of the platform that may help to develop valuable volatile sensing solutions. American Chemical Society.

Removal of toluene as a toxic VOC from methane gas using a non-thermal plasma dielectric barrier discharge reactor
Methane is the main component of biogas, which could be used as a renewable energy source for electricity, source of heat, and biofuel production after upgrading from biogas. It also contains toxic compounds which cause environmental and human health problems. Therefore, in this work, the removal of a toxic compound (toluene) from methane gas was studied using a dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) reactor. It was observed that the removal of the toxic compound could be achieved from methane carrier gas using a dielectric barrier discharge reactor, and it depends on plasma input power. The maximum removal of the toxic compound was 85.9% at 40 W and 2.86 s. The major gaseous products were H2 and lower hydrocarbons (LHC) and the yield of these products also increases with input power. In the current study, the yield of gaseous products depends on the decomposition of toxic compounds and methane, because the decomposition of methane also produces H2 and lower hydrocarbons. The percentage yield of H2 increases from 0.43-4.74%. Similarly, the yield of LHC increases from 0.56-7.54% under the same reaction conditions. Hence, input power promoted the decomposition of the toxic compound and enhanced the yield of gaseous products. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Experimental investigation of neat biodiesels’ saturation level on combustion and emission characteristics in a ci engine
The fuel qualities of several biodiesels containing highly saturated, mono, and poly unsaturated fatty acids, as well as their combustion and exhaust emission characteristics, were studied. Six biodiesel samples were divided into two groups based on their fatty acid composition, including group 1 (coconut, castor, and jatropha) and group II (palm, karanja, and waste cooking oil biodiesel). All fuels (in both groups) were tested in a single-cylinder off-road diesel engine. Castor and karanja biodiesel, both rich in mono-unsaturation level, have a high viscosity of about 14.5 and 5.04 mm2/s, respectively. The coconut and palm biodiesels are rich in saturation level with cetane numbers of 62 and 60, respectively. In both groups, highly saturated and poly-unsaturated methyl esters presented better combustion efficiency and less formation of polluted emissions than mono-unsaturation. At full load, coconut and palm biodiesel displayed 38% and 10% advanced start of combustion, respectively, which reduced ignition delay by approximately 10% and 3%, respectively. Mono-unsaturated methyl esters exhibited a higher cylinder pressure and heat release rate, which results in higher NOx gas emissions. The group II biodiesels showed about 10–15% lower exhaust emissions owing to an optimum level of fatty acid composition. Our study concluded that highly saturated and poly-unsaturated fatty acid performed better than mono-unsaturated biodiesels for off-road engine application. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Hydrogen production through autothermal reforming of ethanol: Enhancement of ni catalyst performance via promotion
Autothermal reforming of bioethanol (ATR of C2H5OH) over promoted Ni/Ce0.8La0.2O1.9 catalysts was studied to develop carbon-neutral technologies for hydrogen production. The regulation of the functional properties of the catalysts was attained by adjusting their nanostructure and reducibility by introducing various types and content of M promoters (M = Pt, Pd, Rh, Re; molar ratio M/Ni = 0.003–0.012). The composition–characteristics–activity correlation was determined using catalyst testing in ATR of C2H5OH, thermal analysis, N2 adsorption, X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, and EDX analysis. It was shown that the type and content of the promoter, as well as the preparation mode (combined or sequential impregnation methods), determine the redox properties of catalysts and influence the textural and structural characteristics of the samples. The reducibility of catalysts improves in the following sequence of promoters: Re < Rh < Pd < Pt, with an increase in their content, and when using the co-impregnation method. It was found that in ATR of C2H5OH over bimetallic Ni-M/Ce0.8Lа0.2O1.9 catalysts at 600 °C, the hydrogen yield increased in the following row of promoters: Pt < Rh < Pd < Re at 100% conversion of ethanol. The introduction of M leads to the formation of a NiM alloy under reaction conditions and affects the resistance of the catalyst to oxidation, sintering, and coking. It was found that for enhancing Ni catalyst performance in H2 production through ATR of C2H5OH, the most effective promotion is with Re: at 600 °C over the optimum 10Ni-0.4Re/Ce0.8Lа0.2O1.9 catalyst the highest hydrogen yield 65% was observed. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Hierarchical zeolites as catalysts for biodiesel production from waste frying oils to overcome mass transfer limitations
Hierarchical crystals with short diffusion path, conventional microcrystals and nanocrystals of ZSM-5 zeolites were used for biodiesel production from waste frying oils and were assessed for their catalytic activity in regard to their pore structure and acidic properties. Produced zeolites were characterized using XRD, nitrogen adsorption–desorption, SEM, TEM, X-ray fluorescence, and FTIR. Pore size effect on molecular diffusion limitation was assessed by Thiele modulus calculations and turnover frequencies (TOF) were used to discuss the correlation between acidic character and catalytic performance of the zeolites. Owing to the enhanced accessibility and mass transfer of triglycerides and free fatty acids to the elemental active zeolitic structure, the catalytic performance of nanosponge and nanosheet hierarchical zeolites was the highest. A maximum yield of 48.29% was reached for the transesterification of waste frying oils (WFOs) using HZSM-5 nanosheets at 12:1 methanol to WFOs molar ratio, 180◦ C, 10 wt % catalyst loading, and 4 h reaction time. Although HZSM-5 nanosponges achieved high conversions, these more hydrophilic zeolites did not function according to their entire acidic strength in comparison to HZSM-5 nanosheets. NSh-HZSM5 catalytic performance was still high after 4 consecutive cycles as a result of the zeolite regeneration. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Genome-wide association study for major biofuel traits in sorghum using minicore collection
Background: Production of biofuels from lignocellulosic crop biomass is an alternative to reduce green-house gas emissions. The biofuel production involves collecting biomass, breaking down cell wall components followed by the conversion of sugars to ethanol. The lingo-cellulosic biomass comprises 40-50% cellulose, 20-30% hemi-cellulose, and 10-25% lignin. Sorghum is a widely adapted energy crop for biofuel production. Biomass with low lignin, high cellulose, and high hemicellulose contents are exploited to attain maximum biofuel production efficiency. Resistance to lodging, pest, disease, and abiotic stresses related to cell wall components is well documented, and quantitative trait loci were identified to understand these traits' genetic correlation. Selection for reduced lignin and in-creased cellulose content in stover can increase the ethanol yield. The Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) is a complementary approach to evaluating the marker and phenotype associations among large diversity panels. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were scanned to identify loci associated with the traits of interest. In this study, the GWAS was performed on 245 sorghum minicore genotypes to analyze agronomic traits (days to 50%flowering, fresh biomass yield, dry biomass yield) and cell wall components (cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin). Further, in-silico validation of the candidate genes was performed in a global gene expression data from large-scale RNA sequencing studies in sorghum available in the NCBI GEO database was used. Objective: The objectives of this study are to evaluate native variations in biofuel related agronomic traits and stalk cell wall components and to identify significant SNPs or loci related to the cell wall components. Methods: In this article, an association mapping panel, comprising of 245 sorghum minicore germplasm accessions, was evaluated during two post rainy seasons of 2013 and 2014, and observations were recorded on the whole plot-for days to 50% flowering, fresh biomass yield (tha-1 ), and dry biomass yield (tha-1 ). The biomass of sun-dried plants from both seasons was collected separately, chopped, dried, and ground to powder. The cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin contents were determined in the powdered. The content of each of these three components in sorghum was expressed in percent of dry matter. The data on agronomic traits and composition analysis was subjected to Analysis of Variance. For the current study, we remapped the raw GBS data with the sorghum assembly version v3.1. A total of 27,589 SNPs were obtained with a minor allele frequency (MAF) &gt;1% and missing data &lt;50%. The GWAS was performed in a single minicore population using FarmCPU, in R software. The synteny positions of the identified significant SNPs between sorghum and other model crop species viz., maize, switchgrass, and Arabidopsis were represented using CIR-COS software for traits viz., dry biomass yield, cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. The transcriptome dataset from where sorghum gene atlas studies of grain, sweet, and bioenergy sorghums are available through NCBI's Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) under accession number GSE49879, was used to cross-validate the identified SNPs for cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin through GWAS. Results: High broad-sense heritability was exhibited for all the traits in individual seasons along with significant geno-type × environment interaction across seasons except lignin. Association mapping with a P &lt; 1×10−4 revealed genomic regions associated with the-(i) agronomic traits (days to 50% flowering, fresh and dry biomass), and (ii) biochemical traits (cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin) associated with biofuels production, in individual seasons. Twelve significant SNPs for flowering time, 30 fresh biomass yields, and 24 for dry biomass yield, 25 for cellulose, 7 for hemicellu-lose, and 21 for lignin were identified. CIRCOS plot was constructed to identify and analyze similarities and differences while comparing the sorghum genome with different crops. For cellulose high similarity of &gt;80% was observed for all sorghum gene sequences with the maize homologs. The overall similarity of sorghum homologs with foxtail millet was &gt;65%, for Arabidopsis from 30.6% to 48.6%, and rice from 28.2% to 92.8%. SNPs for hemicellulose displayed maximum similarity to foxtail millet followed by maize. The sequence similarity of lignin SNPs in sorghum was high-est with the maize genome followed by Arabidopsis. Both rice and foxtail millet showed &gt;55% similarity to the sorghum genome. Conclusion: This study reports large variability for agronomic and biofuel traits in the sorghum minicore collection with high heritability. The genetic architecture of cell wall components using the GWAS approach was studied and candidate genes for each component were annotated. These results give a better understanding of the genetic basis of the sorghum cell wall composition. The association analysis identified regions of the genome that could be targeted to enhance the quality of biomass and yield along with the desired composition promoting breeding efficiency for enhanced biofuel yield. Bentham Science Publishers.

Effect of calcium doping using aqueous phase reforming of glycerol over sonochemically synthesized nickel-based supported ZrO2 catalyst
The aqueous phase reforming (APR) of glycerol was studied using sonochemically synthesized 10%Ni-x%Ca/ZrO2 catalysts (where x = 0, 0.5, 3, and 5) for the production of value-added liquid products. The APR reaction was performed in a batch reactor under the following conditions: 20 bar, 230◦C 450 rpm, and 1 h of reaction time. The synthesized catalysts were characterized using XRD, FESEM, BET, and H2-TPR to observe the effect of Ca doping on the physio-chemical properties of the catalysts. The results revealed that, at higher Ca loading, the catalysts experienced serious particles’ agglomeration, which resulted in a larger particles’ size, smaller surface area, and smaller pore volume owing to uneven distribution of the particles. The characterization results of the catalysts confirmed that the Us catalysts have a slightly higher surface area, pore volume, and pore size, as well as highly reducible and fine crystalline structure, compared with WI catalysts. The catalytic performance of the catalysts shows that 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) and 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO) were the two main liquid products produced from this reaction. The highest selectivity of 1,3-PDO (23.84%) was obtained over the 10%Ni/ZrO2 catalyst, while the highest selectivity of 1,2-PDO (25.87%) was obtained over the 10%Ni-5%Ca/ZrO2 catalyst. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Liquid phase hydrogenation of furfural to biofuel over robust NiCu/Laponite catalyst: A study on the role of copper loading
Sustainable production of biofuel and chemical feedstock through catalytic hydrogenation has now received increased attention due to the expeditious depletion of crude oil. In the present investigation, we developed a cost-effective and base metal-based NiCu/Laponite catalyst for liquid-phase hydrogenation of furfural into fuel range components. The robust catalysts were prepared by a simple co-impregnation method with constant loading of 5 wt% NiO with different wt.% of CuO (x) loadings (where x = 8, 10, 12 &amp; 14%) on the Laponite support. The textural properties, surface acidity, and reduction of the synthesized catalysts were studied by employing various physicochemical characterizations such as XRD, N2 sorption analysis, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, and TGA. The obtained results revealed that optimum loading of 12% CuO and 5% NiO catalyst aids fine dispersion of copper and nickel oxide on the surface of the support. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images displayed the delamination of Laponite particles and dispersion of Ni-Cu catalyst on the support surface. The hydrogenation efficiency of the synthesized catalysts was tested in a bench top stainless steel autoclave reactor by liquid phase reaction condition of furfural at 150–210 °C under 10–25 bar H2 pressure for 1–6 h. The excellent activity of 5Ni-12Cu/Laponite catalysts was compared and correlated with the physicochemical characteristics of the catalyst. The Society of Powder Technology Japan

Efficient conversion of leather tanning waste to biodiesel using crab shell-based catalyst: WASTE-TO-ENERGY approach
To promote the use of waste-originated resources in biodiesel production, this study proposes the utilization of leather tanning waste (LTW) and crab-shell (CS) waste as the respective lipid source and catalyst material. The obtained CS-based calcium oxide (CaO) has comparable textural properties with those of existing waste-based catalysts and shows high catalytic activity for the conversion of LTW to biodiesel. The optimum yield of fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE) is predicted at 97.9 wt%, while it is experimentally observed at 98.7 ± 0.4 wt% (purity of 98.6 ± 0.4 wt%) using the following operating condition: reaction time t = 3.58 h, catalyst amount mc = 3.87 wt%, and a molar ratio of ethanol to LTW meo = 12:1. The CS-based CaO shows good reusability with FAEE yield staying above 90 wt% for four cycles. The fuel properties of LTW-based biodiesel meet ASTM D6751 and ASTM D975-08 standards, with the ethyl ester ranging from C14 to C20. 

Non-enzymatic glucose biofuel cells based on highly porous PtxNi1-x nanoalloys
Abstract: A non-enzymatic glucose biofuel cell (GBFCs) with high-power density and adequate open-circuit potential in physiological environment is based on the improved hydrogen template electrodeposition of the platinum-nickel (PtNi) nanoalloys (the third step adopted a potential-step electrochemical synthesis instead of the conventional method). The morphology tests demonstrate that the highly porous PtxNi1-x nanoalloys exhibit broader pore-size distribution and larger specific electrochemically active surface area than the Pt monometallic nanostructures. Combined with cyclic voltammograms, polarization parameters and cell tests, degradation behavior measurements prove that the nanoalloy products display the excellent long-term stability and high electrocatalytic activity. Controlling the preparation conditions of the highly porous PtxNi1-x nanoalloys could control the morphology and nanostructure of the as-synthesis nanoalloys in order to improve the catalytic performance of these nanoalloys, which grants it great potentialities for controllable synthesis of electrocatalysts in the application of GBFCs. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]DescriptionThe highlyporous platinum nickel nanoalloys are applied as bothanode and cathode in the non-enzymatic glucose biofuel cell withhigh-power density and adequate open-circuit potential inphysiological environment., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Biodiesel production catalyzed by NaOH/Magnetized ZIF-8: Yield improvement using methanolysis and catalyst reusability enhancement
The current study investigates the methanolysis reaction to increase biodiesel yield using the recently developed NaOH/magnetized ZIF-8 catalyst. The effects of methanol to oil ratio and catalyst dose on oil conversion with their interaction were studied by employing full factorial design and response surface methodology. Two-factor interaction model was selected as the best model to fit the experimental data with a determination coefficient (R2) of 0.97 where all the model's parameters were significant. The two factors were found positively influencing the reaction conversion. The maximum observed conversion reached almost 100% at 21:1 M methanol to oil ratio and 3 wt% catalyst/oil ratio. Additionally, the kinetic study revealed that pseudo-second order kinetic model fits the experimental data well. In addition, the Arrhenius equation analysis showed lower activation energy and higher pre-exponential factor for methanolysis in comparison with ethanolysis indicating the faster kinetics. Besides, ASTM standard testing techniques confirmed that the produced esters at optimum conditions can be used as biodiesel sustainable fuel. Finally, several modifications in the catalyst preparation conditions or procedure showed their ability to increase catalyst stability and reusability characteristics. 

Fe3O4-poly(AGE-DVB-GMA) composites immobilized with guanidine as a magnetically recyclable catalyst for enhanced biodiesel production
This present research aims at developing an efficient and reusable base catalyst to improve the biodiesel production for the need of green chemistry and sustainable development. To achieve this, the copolymer, namely poly(allylglycidyl ether-divinylbenzene-glycidyl methacrylate) (poly(AGE-DVB-GMA)), was firstly incorporated in the Fe3O4 nanoparticles forming magnetic Fe3O4-poly(AGE-DVB-GMA) composites, and then organic guanidine was bound on the magnetic matrices via covalent bonds with active epoxy groups. The characterization of the as-made magnetic copolymer support and solid base catalysts was performed by several techniques, and the results revealed that the guanidine base was successfully tethered on the magnetic copolymer support. This developed solid catalyst possessed large surface basicity of 2.45 mmol/g and highly magnetic responsiveness with saturation magnetization value of 18.13 emu/g, displaying good activity to the transesterification of soybean oil to biodiesel in a heterogeneous manner. Under the transesterification conditions of methanol/oil molar ratio of 20:1, catalyst dosage of 7 wt%, reaction temperature of 65 °C, reaction duration of 8 h, the biodiesel yield of 92.6% was attained over the guanidine-based solid catalyst. Moreover, the catalyst could be easily separated under an external magnetic field, and showed satisfactory catalytic activity even after four reuse cycles, thus posing considerable potential for the sustainable and clean production of biodiesel. 

Highly selective etherification of fructose and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural over a novel Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst for sustainable liquid fuel production
Sustainable liquid fuel production from bio-oil compounds has attracted considerable attention in recent years. The catalytic etherification of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) is an effective approach for the production of liquid fuels. However, the development of high-performance and chemically stable catalysts has remained challenging. In this work, ultra-small Pd-Ru NPs were successfully immobilized on the surfaces of 2D MXene nanosheets (Pd-Ru/MXene) via fish sperm DNA-assisted microwave process. HR-TEM imaging results with SAED analysis showed that the hexagonal closed-pack (hcp) Pd-Ru NPs were grown on the surfaces of sheet-like MXene, thus enhancing the specific surface area of 117 m2 g−1 and providing a higher density of the acid-base sites. Furthermore, Pd-Ru/MXene was employed for the etherification of HMF into EMF. The results showed that the Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst exhibited 98% EMF yield and 100% HMF conversion with the prolonged usage of catalyst for five consecutive reuse cycles. Additionally, fructose was directly converted into EMF with a higher yield of 82% over the Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst at lower reaction conditions. The recyclability test of the used Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst demonstrated its chemical stability under prolonged usage for several hours and is therefore suitable for commercial renewable liquid fuel production. Novelty Statement: The catalytic transformation of biomass into diesel-miscible biofuel is a sustainable route for liquid fuel production and has recently attracted massive attention. The chemically stable and high-performance Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst was successfully prepared and characterized. The study demonstrated that the Pd-Ru/MXene catalyst exhibits superior catalytic activity toward the direct conversion of fructose and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF) into 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (5-EMF), which is a promising conversion method for the production of biofuels from biomass. The Authors. International Journal of Energy Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

The study of hydrothermal liquefaction of corn straw with Nano ferrite + inorganic base catalyst system at low temperature
Hydrothermal liquefaction of corn straw with different catalytic systems and temperatures were investigated in this study. Results showed dual catalytic system can effectively promote the degradation of corn straw at low temperature. With increase of temperature, aqueous phase increased and straw residue decreased for all catalytic systems. The heavy bio-oil yield increased with the increasing of temperature for single catalytic system, while the trend was opposite for dual catalytic system. In single catalytic system, ZnFe2O4 was more suitable for preparation of heavy bio-oil, and the maximum yield reached 34.02 wt% at 180 °C. The proportion of monophenyl compounds in heavy bio-oil for dual catalytic system reached the maximum of 84% at 220 °C with ZnFe2O4. At 180 °C, the contents of Benzofuran,2,3-dihydro and 2-Methoxy-4-vinylphenol reached the maximum of 31.42% and 17.64% in CoFe2O4 catalyst system, and the maximum yield of Vanillin was 10.82% with ZnFe2O4. 

Preparation, characterization and application of novel surface-modified ZrSnO4 as Sn-based TMOs catalysts for the stearic acid esterification with methanol to biodiesel
Tin zirconium oxide catalysts (Sn-based TMOs) were successfully prepared with three different methods, ultrasonic-assisted hydrothermal, sol-gel, and traditional precipitation method, and applied for biodiesel production. The physicochemical and the catalytic efficiency by the esterification of stearic acid of the as-synthesized catalysts were investigated by different techniques. The production of biodiesel (as methyl stearate) has emerged as a greener and renewable substitute for petro based diesel fuel. The optimization of the esterification conditions for maximum yield of biodiesel was performed by studying different factors as the catalyst preparation method, reaction time, molar ratio of alcohol to stearic acid, reaction temperature, and the catalyst concentration. The preferred catalyst (SnZrh) was optimized as the reaction temperature of 120 °C, 150 M ratio of methanol to stearic acid, 0.2 g catalyst amount and reaction time of 60 min. The SnZrh catalyst exhibited 74% yield of methyl stearate. Also, the kinetic and thermodynamic studies of stearic acid esterification reaction were inspected. The reusability of the optimized tin zirconium oxide catalyst for seventh runs was professionally studied. The computational chemistry study showed that the interaction mechanism between the optimized catalyst and stearic acid was preferable between SnO2 active sites and carbonic group of stearic acid. 

A mesoporous polysulfonic acid-formaldehyde polymeric catalyst for biodiesel production from Jatropha curcas oil
A highly reactive acid-functionalized polymer is prepared by the simple condensation of aqueous formaldehyde and p-phenolsulfonic acid and used as a solid catalyst in concerted (trans)esterification. This yields biodiesel from Jatropha oil without the need to remove water by-product from the reaction mixture. An isolated biodiesel yield of 98 ± 2% is achieved using a catalyst loading of 10 wt %, methanol:oil ratio of 12:1, temperature of 90 °C, and reaction time of 6 h. The high activity of our catalyst is attributed to its porous nature and the co-inclusion of reactive SO3H sites and phenolic OH groups. Advantageously, these groups are hydrophilic, allowing the catalyst to remain highly active in the presence of H2O. Nine methyl ester components are identified in the biodiesel product, with 9-octadecanoic acid methyl ester (C18:2, 64.92%) and hexadecanoic acid methyl ester (C16:0, 16.44%) as the major constituents. The catalyst is evaluated over 4 cycles, maintaining a 92 ± 2% isolated yield. Physicochemical analysis of the spent catalyst by SEM-EDX suggests this decrease is due to some loss of mesoporosity and sulfur content. 

Soybean biodiesel production using synergistic CaO/Ag nano catalyst: Process optimization, kinetic study, and economic evaluation
A heterogeneous CaO/Ag nano catalyst was developed and applied for biodiesel production from transesterification of soybean oil. The silver performed synergistic effects with CaO on promoting biodiesel production. The CaO/Ag nano catalysts exhibited abundant strong basic sites with larger BET surface area (7.02 vs 2.05 m2/g), pore diameter (58.84 vs 37.08 nm) and pore volume (0.070 vs 0.016 cm3/g), which significantly reduced mass transfer resistance of triglycerides during transesterification and improved the mass transfer constants. Response surface methodology was applied to investigate the influence reaction parameters and optimize biodiesel yield. A maximized biodiesel yield of 90.95 ± 2.56 % was achieved using methanol:oil molar ratio of 13, CaO/Ag loading of 5%, reaction time of 90 min and reaction temperature of 72℃. The optimized biodiesel yield for CaO catalyzed transesterification was 88.40 ± 3.34 %, using similar reaction conditions but with 180 min of reaction time. Both nano catalysts were consecutively reused for five times. Kinetic and thermodynamic studies of CaO and CaO/Ag catalyzed transesterification were performed and compared. Economic evaluation of biodiesel production using CaO and CaO/Ag was performed and compared to provide insights for heterogeneous catalyst application for biodiesel production on industrial scale. Elsevier B.V.

Synthesis of value-added materials from the sewage sludge of cosmetics industry effluent treatment plant
In this work, biochar and bio-oil were produced from the sewage sludge of cosmetics industry effluent treatment plant via pyrolysis under N2 atmosphere, at 500 and 600 °C and 30 and 60 min. The biochar presented micrometric particles with a porous structure, with a surface area between 203 and 231 m2 g-1 and amorphous aspect containing crystalline quartz structures. The superior calorific power (SCP) for different biochar was 5.9-7.6 MJ kg-1. Bio-oils presented fatty acids, alcohols and esters with long aliphatic chains as main constituents. The SCP of these materials showed a high value (41 MJ kg-1), with the possibility to be used as a precursor for the biofuels production. The biochar, was applied as an adsorbent for the methylene blue (MB) dye from aqueous system. The adsorption parameters such as contact time (0-120 min), adsorbent dosage (0.25-1.0 g L-1) and initial pH (5-9.5) were studied. Kinetics and adsorption isotherm studies were also carried out. Pseudo-second order and Langmuir isotherm models fit the data better, showing adsorption maximum amount of 51 mg g-1 at 45 °C. The MB removal by biochar is an endothermic process and the material can be reactivated and reused. From the results, it can be concluded that the sludge from the cosmetic industry can be used as raw material to obtain new products with added value, such as biochar and bio-oil. .

Overview of Feedstocks for Sustainable Biodiesel Production and Implementation of the Biodiesel Program in Pakistan
The energy demand of the world is skyrocketing due to the exponential economic growth and population expansion. To meet the energy requirement, the use of fossil fuels is not a good decision, causing environmental pollution such as CO2 emissions. Therefore, the use of renewable energy sources like biofuels can meet the energy crisis especially for countries facing oil shortages such as Pakistan. This review describes the comparative study of biodiesel synthesis for various edible oils, non-edible oils, and wastes such as waste plastic oil, biomass pyrolysis oil, and tyre pyrolysis oil in terms of their oil content and extraction, cetane number, and energy content. The present study also described the importance of biodiesel synthesis via catalytic transesterification and its implementation in Pakistan. Pakistan is importing an extensive quantity of cooking oil that is used in the food processing industries, and as a result, a huge quantity of waste cooking oil (WCO) is generated. The potential waste oils for biodiesel synthesis are chicken fat, dairy scum, WCO, and tallow oil that can be used as potential substrates of biodiesel. The implementation of a biodiesel program as a replacement of conventional diesel will help to minimize the oil imports and uplift the country's economy. Biodiesel production via homogeneous and heterogeneous catalyzed transesterification is more feasible among all transesterification processes due to a lesser energy requirement and low cost. Therefore, biodiesel synthesis and implementation could minimize the imports of diesel by significantly contributing to the overall Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Although, waste oil can meet the energy needs, more available cultivation land should be used for substrate cultivation. In addition, research is still needed to explore innovative solvents and catalysts so that overall biodiesel production cost can be minimized. This would result in successful biodiesel implementation in Pakistan. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

Hydrotreatment of lignin dimers over NiMoS-USY: effect of silica/alumina ratio
Sulfides of NiMo over a series of commercial ultra-stable Y zeolites were studied in an autoclave reactor to elucidate the effect of silica/alumina ratio (SAR = 12, 30, and 80) on the cleavage of etheric C-O (β-O-4) and C-C (both sp3-sp2and sp2-sp2) linkages present in native/technical lignin and lignin derived bio-oils. 2-Phenethyl phenyl ether (PPE), 4,4-dihydroxydiphenylmethane (DHDPM), and 2-phenylphenol, (2PP) were examined as model dimers at 345 °C and 50 bar of total pressure using dodecane as the solvent. The etheric C-O hydrogenolysis activity was found to be in the order NiMoY30 &gt; NiMoY12 &gt; NiMoY80, despite a high initial rate of C-O cleavage over NiMoY12 owing to its high acid density. A high degree of hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) and hydrocracking reactions were observed with NiMoY30 yielding &gt;80% of deoxygenated products of which ∼58% are benzene, toluene, and ethylbenzenes. A similar experiment with DHDPM showed the rapid cleavage of the methylene-linked C-C dimer (sp3-sp2) to phenols and cresols even with the low acid density (high SAR) catalyst, NiMoY80. Direct hydrocracking of the recalcitrant 5-5′ linkage in 2PP is very slow, however, it cleavedviaa cascade of HDO, ring-hydrogenation, and hydrocracking reactions. A high degree of hydrogenolysis and hydrocracking occurs over NiMoY30 due to suitable balance between acidity and pore accessibility, enhanced proximity between acidic and deoxygenation sites leading to a slightly higher dispersion of Ni promoted MoS2crystallites. Overall, the product spectrum consisted of a high yield of deoxygenated products. The carbon content on the recovered catalyst was in the range of 3-7 wt%. These results pave the way for effective catalysts to break recalcitrant linkages present in lignin to obtain a hydrocarbon-rich liquid transportation fuel. An experiment with Kraft lignin over NiMoY30 shows good selectivity for deoxygenated aromatics and cycloalkanes in the liquid phase. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021.

Pseudo-homogeneous and heterogeneous kinetic models of the naoh-catalyzed methanolysis reaction for biodiesel production
Methanolysis of vegetable oils in the presence of homogeneous catalysts remains the most important process for producing biodiesel. However, there is still a lack of accurate description of the reaction kinetics. This is in part due to the complexity of the reacting system in which a large number of interconnected reactions take place simultaneously. In this work, attention is focused on the biphasic character of the reaction medium, formed by two immiscible liquid phases. The behavior of the phases is investigated regarding their physicochemical properties, mainly density and mutual solubility of the components, as well as composition. In addition, two kinetic models with different level of complexity regarding the biphasic character of the reaction medium have been developed. It has been found that a heterogeneous model considering the presence of the two phases and the distribution of the several compounds between them is indispensable to get a good description of the process in terms of oil conversion and products yields. The model captures the effects of the main variables of an isothermal batch methanolysis process: methanol/oil molar ratio, reaction time and catalyst concentration. Nevertheless, some adjustment is still required as concerns modelling of the saponification reactions and catalyst deactivation. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Preparation of ZnO Nanocatalyst Fixed on a Substrate and Perspectives on the Photocatalytic Production of Biogas from Plant Waste
Abstract: The article considers the production of biofuel from agricultural waste, such as sugars, alcohols, organic acids, by obtaining hydrogen and biogas from them during photocatalytic decomposition. Possible chemical reactions during photocatalysis are presented using the example of the photocatalytic decomposition of methanol into hydrogen and carbon dioxide. Experiments on the preparation of nanostructured ZnO by the hydrothermal method in a solution containing zinc acetate and urotropin have been carried out. The obtained ZnO immobilized on a substrate is supposed to be used as a photocatalyst. A possible design of a reaction vessel and radiation sources for a laboratory setup for producing biogas from model solutions are considered., Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

In-situ biodiesel synthesis from microalgae nannochloropsis oculata using nio nanocatalyst
Biodiesel is an alternative fuel or biofuel that can be produced from microalgal oil. Nannochloropsis oculata is a species of marine microalgae that is easily cultivated and has a high content of lipid. N. oculata lipids can be extracted efficiently using NiO nanocatalyst as cell disruption agent and organic solvents. The optimal treatment time for NiO nanocatalyst is 96 hours in chloroform. At the optimized conditions, the lipid extract from N. oculata reached 34.20 ± 0.52% of the total weight. The conversion of microalgal oil into biodiesel is carried out with a transesterification reaction using three different catalysts, respectively. Biodiesel conversion with NiO nanocatalyst is better than that with the other catalysts of NaOH and HCl. The conversion yield of microalgal oil to biodiesel with NiO nanocatalyst reaches 89.72%. Based on the advantage of NiO nanocatalyst as both a cell disruption agent and a catalyst, biodiesel production can be performed in an in-situ way. The conversion yield of biodiesel was 85.54% within 60 mins., Rasayan Journal of Chemistry, c/o Dr. Pratima Sharma. All rights reserved.

Pt and Ru Catalysts Based on Porous Aromatic Frameworks for Hydrogenation of Lignin Biofuel Components
Abstract: A platinum catalyst and a ruthenium catalyst were synthesized from a porousaromatic framework, namely PAF-30. The catalyst properties were examined inhydrogenation of phenol and guaiacol at 80–250°C and at a hydrogen pressure of30 atm in the presence of various solvents. Significant effects of the reactionmedium, process conditions, and catalyst morphology on the reaction mechanismwere demonstrated. Reaction conditions optimal for complete conversion of phenoland guaiacol to hydrogenation products were selected for both catalysts. [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

Process intensification of thumba methyl ester (Biodiesel) production using hydrodynamic cavitation
The development of clean and sustainable biofuel generation from sustainable feedstock using an integrated process intensification approach like hydrodynamic cavitation (HC) is essential now. The current research is a 'first of its kind' where hydrodynamic cavitation is integrated with heterogeneous catalyst, i.e. TiO2, to prepare thumba methyl esters (TME). So far, no studies on biodiesel production using heterogeneous catalysts using HC are reported in the literature. Experiments were performed with an optimized orifice plate to investigate the effects of operating parameters viz., Thumba oil to methanol molar ratio (1:4–1:8), TiO2 concentration (1–1.4% by weight of oil), and operating temperature (50 °C to 70 °C). Maximum triglyceride conversion (71.8%) was obtained at thumba oil to methanol ratio of 1:6, TiO2 concentration of 1.2% weight percentage and operating temperature of 60 °C in hydrodynamic cavitation reactor within 1 h at 5 bar. The cavitational yield for HC was found to be 9.3 × 10−6 moles L/J, which was almost 27% higher than the value for the conventional approach (3.37 × 10−7 moles L/J). The experimental data fitted second-order reaction kinetics w.r.t limiting reactant, i.e., thumba oil and first-order w.r.t excess reactant, i.e., methanol. The pre-exponential factor (k0) and activation energy (E) of the alcoholysis reaction was found to be 82.26 L2 mol−2 min−1 and 15.44 kJ/mol, respectively. The thermodynamic analysis suggested that the alcoholysis of the thumba oil followed the endergonic reaction pathway. Thumba methyl ester (TME) synthesized via this intensified approach is a novel and energy-efficient method compared to the conventional method. Institution of Chemical Engineers

N, P, and S tri-doped holey carbon as an efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction in whole pH range for fuel cell and zinc-air batteries
Although, metal-free electrocatalysts have been exhibiting attractive oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance comparable to Pt/C in alkaline electrolytes, their activity in acidic and neutral mediums is unsatisfactory, hindering their widespread application in energy devices, such as proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), neutral metal-air batteries, and biofuel cells. Herein, N,P,S tri-doped holey carbon (NPS-HC) nanomaterials have been prepared using a one-step method with large specific surface area (1656.0 m2 g−1), abundant holes and edges, and high heteroatom content (7.57 at.%). The optimized NPS-HC exhibits outstanding ORR performance in universal pH mediums, being closely comparable to the commercial Pt/C. The NPS-HC is also utilized as air cathode in alkaline (peak power density: 286.6 mW cm−2 @ 488.1 mA cm−2) and neutral (85.7 mW cm−2 @ 228.8 mA cm−2) electrolytic Zn-air batteries as well as the ORR cathode in a practical PEMFC (275.1 mW cm−2) with comparable or superior performances than the previous reports. Such excellent electrocatalytic performance is attributed to the N,P,S tri-doping induced synergistic charge transfer and spin redistribution along with the hierarchical holey structure with exposed active sites and facilitated mass transport. Thus, this earth-abundant carbon-based nanomaterial holds great potential for high-performance pH-universal ORR catalysis in various energy-related technologies. 

Analysis of the potential for biogas upgrading to syngas via catalytic reforming in the United Kingdom
The UK faces unprecedented environmental challenges which require urgent action. The promotion of renewable energy sources is a promising solution to tackle these challenges. Among these, syngas production from biogas via dry reforming of methane shows great potential as a green alternative to meet global environmental goals. The purpose of this work is to estimate the potential of syngas production from biogas in the UK and its profitability. To estimate the syngas production, we present an overview of methane dry reforming to syngas. This analysis reveals that nickel/alumina catalysts are the most popular choice for the mentioned reaction. Afterwards, the potential biogas production in the UK is obtained. Both set of data are subsequently combined to estimate the potential for syngas production from biomass in the UK. A techno-economic analysis is performed to estimate the syngas price to reach profitability. This analysis reveals syngas prices ranging from 1.15 to 1.56 €/m3 to overcome production costs, which is higher than producing syngas from traditional fossil fuels. Further analysis has also been conducted to estimate the production of different utilisation routes for said syngas including biofuel, methanol and electricity. The Authors

Heterogeneously catalyzed biodiesel production from Azadiricha Indica oil: Predictive modelling with uncertainty quantification, experimental optimization and techno-economic analysis
This study presents predictive modelling with uncertainty analysis, optimization and techno-economic feasibility of Bio-catalyzed Biodiesel Production from Azidirica Indica Oil (BCBPAIO). Central Composite Design (CCD) predictive model and optimum conditions for BCBPAIO were developed in Design Expert software. The model uncertainty analysis was performed using Monte Carlo simulation. The BCBPAIO simulation and economic analysis were conducted in ASPEN Batch Process Developer V10. The correlation coefficient (R2) and adjusted R2 value of the CCD model were 0.9922 and 0.9780 respectively. CCD model certainty gave 73.51% with 100,000 trials; the oil transesterification optimum conditions gave 87.04% conversion with 3.62 wt% of catalysts; and methanol to oil molar ratio of 8:1 at 59 °C for 4 h. The annual production cost, total capital investment, payback time and internal rate of returns are $ 3537105, $ 5243784, 2.67 and 43% respectively. This study shows that the production is profitably feasible.

Dual-application of novel magnetic carbon nanocomposites as catalytic liquefaction for bio-oil synthesis and multi-heavy metal adsorption
The objective of this study is the applications of hybrid magnetic nanocomposites as catalyst as well as an adsorbent. Four magnetic nanocomposites (graphene and chitosan based) were fabricated using single pot solvothermal carbonization co-precipitation (STCC) route by integrating biomass functionalized with iron oxide nanoparticles. All hybrid nanocomposites were characterized for their magnetic, thermal, chemical and structural properties. Adsorption isotherms and kinetics studies were performed for adsorption of multi-heavy metals including Cd, Ni, Cu and Cr. Finally, the hybrid magnetic carbon nanocomposites were tested as catalysts to produce bio-oil through catalytic liquefaction of rice husk in supercritical ethanol. It was found that the bio-oil yield and overall conversion was enhanced significantly from 29.5% and 48.11% without catalyst, to 36.8% and 60.81% respectively with the presence of magnetic carbon nanocomposites as catalyst. Furthermore, the bio-oil energy quality was enhanced in energy content from 21.72 to 23.21 MJ/kg with the presence of catalyst and H/C and O/C ratios were reduced. Finally, GCMS revealed that the bio-oil produced using catalysts showed higher mass fraction of esters, hydrocarbons and reduced acid groups as compared to bio-oil. This study provides insights to the understanding of the role of hybrid magnetic nanocomposites for its expansion for future applications. 

A novel CaO-based catalyst obtained from silver croaker (Plagioscion squamosissimus) stone for biodiesel synthesis: Waste valorization and process optimization
A new catalyst was synthesized from the South American Silver Croaker's stone − the Silver Croaker is a fish widely consumed in Brazil and the stone is a residue from the fish's head. The stone and the bio-based catalyst obtained from it were characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, X-ray fluorescence, thermogravimetric analysis, surface area, and soluble alkalinity. It was confirmed that the stone is composed of aragonite (calcium carbonate) and the catalyst obtained by calcination of calcium oxide (CaO). The catalytic activity was evaluated by transesterification reactions. The process was optimized by surface response methodology based on Box – Behnken design. Methanol:oil molar ratio of 11.8, 5.33 wt% of catalyst, 175 min of reaction time, and 67.85 °C were identified as optimal conditions, reaching conversions close to 99% and ester content of 97.4%. The catalyst derived from silver croaker stone was reused 5 times while maintaining its high performance. Thus, a new application was given to this little-known waste, showing its potential as a catalyst in the synthesis of biodiesel. 

Nanocomposite based on Fe3O4/MnO2 for biodiesel production improving
Biodiesel production is becoming more and more important lately and different methods for production are searched. Thus, biodiesel can be obtained from different vegetable oils or animal fats using catalysts. The aim of this research was to prepare the Fe3O4/MnO2 nanocomposite and test them as catalyst to efficiently obtain biofuel like the final product from the oil obtained from seeds and grapes residues by microwave-assisted transesterification. Synthesized Fe3O4/MnO2 nanocomposites using chemically and biochemically (using plant extracts) route were characterized regarding size, crystallinity, composition, porosity and specific surface area. The analysis of the final results revealed that the samples chemically prepared show smaller sizes, specific surface area higher and porosity lower than the sample prepared using plant extract. The Fe3O4/MnO2 nanocomposites with the highest specific surface area from all prepared nanocomposites were tested for microwave-assisted transesterification studies. These nanocomposites, used as catalyst, determine an increasing reaction rate of the transesterification process thus being a promising route for biodiesel production., Institute of Chemistry, Slovak Academy of Sciences.

Effect of acid treatment and Na2CO3 as a catalyst on the quality and quantity of bio-products derived from the pyrolysis of granular bacteria biomass
The intense growth rate of granular bacteria biomass (GB) in anaerobic wastewater treatment units has made environmental problems with its disposal. In this research the potential of pyrolysis method to convert granular bacteria biomass to biofuels was completely investigated. The non-catalytic experiments were performed in a temperature range of 400 to 700 °C and the maximum liquid product yield on dry ash-free basis (55.0 %wt.) was obtained at optimum temperature of 550 °C. Pyrolysis of pretreated granular bacteria with 5 wt% HCl (PGB) and then impregnation with Na2CO3 (IPGB) was studied to improve the bio-oil quality as well as higher amount of synthesis gas. Feedstock pretreatment with acid decreased the gas yield in 550 °C while Na2CO3 pretreatment had reverse effect, with H2 yield (mmol/g feed) of 2.9, 2.4 and 1.8 for IPGB, GB and PGB respectively. It means Na2CO3 exhibited excellent catalytic activity toward producing hydrogen-rich hydrocarbons. Acid treatment increased bio-oil weight percent with little effect on the quality, while the IPGB pyrolysis resulted 8.3% and 8.6% decrease in the oxygenates and nitrogenates respectively and 19.5% increase in the hydrocarbons which improved the higher heating value (HHV) from 32.6 MJ/kg to 33.7 MJ/kg in comparison with GB. The raw and treated biomass was characterized by using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA-DTG), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), elemental analyses (CHNS), field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) and scanning electron microscope-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (SEM-EDS). The bio-products were analyzed by a gas chromatography-thermal conductivity detector (GC-TCD), a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS) and CHNS. 

Synthesis of biodiesel from chicken skin waste: an economic and environmental biofuel feedstock in Bangladesh
One of the dominating meat supply industries, the poultry chicken sector, is facing waste management concerns worldwide. Due to high oil content containment, biofuel researchers emphasized poultry waste as abundant, cheap, and high-quality feedstock for biodiesel production. Therefore, in the current study, an experimental investigation of biodiesel production from wasted chicken skin through the transesterification process has been performed. The chicken skin used in this study for biodiesel production can be used as the potential waste source for biodiesel production worldwide. Techno-economic, environmental, and sustainability analyses were also performed. During the synthesis, the reaction was conducted with potassium hydroxide (KOH), and the process yielded 48% biodiesel. The cost of electricity for providing electricity is estimated at US$0.575 per kWh when an auto-sized generator has been fueled by biodiesel. The environmental and substantiality analysis found that biodiesel is more suitable than conventional diesel as an environmentally friendly and sustainable fuel., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Preparation of Second Generation Biodiesel Via Hydrodeoxygenation of Jatropha Oil [麻疯树油加氢脱氧制备第二代生物柴油]
Non-edible jatropha oil was catalyzed by the sulfurated NiMo/activated clay catalyst to produce the second generation biodiesel. By the method of isovolumetric impregnation plus in-situ activation by CS2, a sulfurated NiMo/activated clay catalyst was prepared, and the structure and performance of the catalyst were studied by XRD, BET, Py-FTIR and NH3-TPD techniques. The effects of different reaction conditions such as reaction temperature, catalyst dosage, hydrogen pressure, reaction time on the reaction were investigated. The experimental results show that the optimal reaction conditions are as follows: the reaction temperature is 300 ℃, the catalyst mass fraction is 7.5%, the initial hydrogen pressure of the reaction is 3.5 MPa, and the reaction time is 60 min. Under these conditions, the conversion ratio of jatropha oil and the selectivity to C15-C18 reached 84.53% and 95.19%, respectively. The main components of optimal product were analyzed. With the sulfurated NiMo/activated clay, the second generation biodiesel with the main components of C15-C18 alkenes was obtained via the reactions of hydrogenation saturation, hydrodeoxygenation, hydrodecarbonylation and cracking., Editorial Department of Journal of Hunan University. All right reserved.

Partial hydrogenation and hydrogen induction: A comparative study with B20 operation in a turbocharged CRDI diesel engine
Numerous studies explored the possibility and effective strategies for supplementing hydrogen along with fossil or biofuels on internal combustion engines. Hydrogen is also being employed for formulating fuels such as hydrogen compressed natural gas in the gaseous form and hydrogenated biofuels in the liquid form. The present study evaluates (i) hydrogen usage on the fuel formulation and (ii) investigates the engine operation of an automotive turbocharged diesel engine operated with karanja biodiesel blended diesel (B20) as a reference fuel. Existing literature outlines that biodiesel blends possess lower energy content and emit higher nitric oxide (NO) emission than fossil diesel. The present research paper partially hydrogenates karanja biodiesel using an autoclave reactor with a palladium catalyst to increase the saturation levels and mitigate the biodiesel-NO penalty. Besides, the drop in energy release of B20 is compensated through the provision of hydrogen induction along the intake manifold. The hydrogen flow rates to the turbocharged engine are maintained at a fixed energy share of 10%. Both biodiesel and hydrogenated biodiesel were blended on a volume basis (20%) with fossil diesel (80%) and are designated as B20 and HB20, respectively. The test results reveal that HB20 effectively mitigates the biodiesel-NO penalty with a maximum reduction of 29.8% compared to B20. Further, hydrogen induction yielded a significant improvement (23.7%) in fuel consumption with HB20 relative to B20 without hydrogen addition. The compounding effect of hydrogen usage on the engine operation and fuel formulation exhibited a better performance and emission trade-off at mid load conditions. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Batch and Continuous-Flow Preparation of Biomass-Derived Furfural Acetals over a TiO2 Nanoparticle-Exfoliated Montmorillonite Composite Catalyst
Furfural acetals with high octane value, high calorific value and high oxidation resistance are considered promising biofuels or fuel precursors with huge potential demand. However, there are few studies on efficient scalable catalyst systems, including continuous-flow catalyst systems, for their preparation. In this work, TiO2 nanoparticles supported on exfoliated montmorillonite, with strong Lewis acid sites and abundant accessible Brønsted acid sites, is used to catalyze the acetalization reactions of biomass-derived furfural and alcohols. Low dosage of the catalyst made the reaction reach equilibrium in a very short time (TOF=690–1305 min−1) at room temperature with the acetal as the only product. In continuous-flow reactions, the catalyst showed a stable product output with conversion close to that for the batch reaction with a short catalyst-reactant contact time of 150 s. Contrast experiments revealed that both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on the catalyst were indispensable for maximizing the catalytic performance, and simultaneously activating both furfural and alcohol on the adjacent Lewis and Brønsted acid sites was proposed to be responsible for the high catalytic performance. Wiley-VCH GmbH

Debottlenecking a Pulp Mill by Producing Biofuels from Black Liquor in Three Steps
By extracting lignin, pulp production can be increased without heavy investments in a new recovery boiler, the typical bottleneck of a pulp mill. The extraction is performed by using 0.20 and 0.15 weight equivalents of CO2 and H2SO4 respectively. Herein, we describe lignin esterification with fatty acids using benign reagents to generate a lignin ester mixable with gas oils. The esterification is accomplished by activating the fatty acid and lignin with acetic anhydride which can be regenerated from the acetic acid recycled in this reaction. The resulting mass balance ratio is fatty acid/lignin/acetic acid (2 : 1 : 0.1). This lignin ester can be hydroprocessed to generate hydrocarbons in gasoline, aviation, and diesel range. A 300-hour continuous production of fuel was accomplished. By recirculating reagents from both the esterification step and applying a water gas shift reaction on off-gases from the hydroprocessing, a favorable overall mass balance is realized. The Authors. ChemSusChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH

Influence of light intensity and photoperiod on the photoautotrophic growth and lipid content of the microalgae verrucodesmus verrucosus in a photobioreactor
Microalgal biomass has the capacity to accumulate relatively large quantities of triacylglyc-erides (TAG) for the conversion of methyl esters of fatty acids (FAME) which has made microalgae a desirable alternative for the production of biofuels. In the present work Verrucodesmus verrucosus was evaluated under autotrophic growth conditions as a suitable source of oil for biodiesel production. For this purpose BG11 media were evaluated in three different light:dark photoperiods (L:D; 16:08; 12:12; 24:0) and light intensities (1000, 2000 and 3000 Lux) in a photobioreactor with a capacity of three liters; the evaluation of the microalgal biomass was carried out through the cell count with the use of the Neubauer chamber followed by the evaluation of the kinetic growth parameters. So, the lipid accumulation was determined through the lipid extraction with a Soxhlet system. Finally, the fatty acid profile of the total pooled lipids was determined using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). The results demonstrate that the best conditions are a photoperiod of 12 light hours and 12 dark hours with BG11 medium in a 3 L tubular photobioreactor with 0.3% CO2, 25◦C and 2000 Lux, allowing a lipid accumulation of 50.42%. Palmitic acid is identified as the most abundant fatty acid at 44.90%. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Experimental study of fuel consumption and exhaust gas composition of a diesel engine powered by biodiesel from waste of animal origin
The use of biofuel is one method for limiting the harmful impact of diesel engines on the environment. It is also a way of gradually becoming less dependent on the depleting petroleum resources. New resources for producing biodiesel are currently being sought. The authors produced esters from animal fat waste, obtaining a fuel that can power diesel engines and identifying a way to utilise unnecessary waste. The animal fat methyl ester (AME) was produced using a reactor constructed for non‐industrial ester production. The aim underlying this paper was to determine whether a diesel engine can be fuelled with AME biodiesel and to test this fuel’s impact on exhaust gas composition and fuel consumption. Fuelling a Perkins 1104D‐44TA engine with AME biodiesel led to a reduction in the smoke opacity of the exhaust gas as well as in carbohydrate, particulate matter, and carbon monoxide concentrations. The carbon dioxide concentrations were similar for biodiesel and diesel fuel. Slight increases in nitrogen oxides concentrations and brake‐specific fuel consumption were found for AMEs. An engine can be fuelled with AME biodiesel, but it is necessary to improve its low‐temperature properties. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Economic considerations on nutrient utilization in wastewater management
There is wide consensus that Spirulina can serve as a tool for wastewater management and simultaneously provide feedstock for biorefining. However, the economic aspects associated with its use remain a significant challenge. Spirulina cultivated in wastewater decreased the concentrations of both ammonia and nitrate and also served as a biodiesel source. The oil obtained in the feedstock was subjected to transesterification and turned into biodiesel. The biodiesel was subsequently analyzed in a test motor (water-cooled, four-stroke, single-cylinder compression ignition with injection). The tests were conducted at a constant 1500 rpm, and the output power was 3.7 kW. Mixtures of diesel and biodiesel were also enriched with carbon nanotubes (CNTs). The amount of CNTs added to the diesel was 30 mg L−1 . The algae and de-oiled biomass were characterized using XRD analysis, and an ultrasonicator was used to mix the CNTs with diesel and spirulina blends. A series of tests were conducted at different load conditions (25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%) for all fuel blends. Test results were compared with a neat diesel engine with a CR of 17.5:1. Among the fuel blends, the B25 reported improved brake thermal efficiency and reduced emissions. The outcomes are a reduction in thermal efficiency of 0.98% and exhaust gas temperature of 1.7%. The addition of Spirulina biodiesel blends had a positive impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, including reductions of 16.3%, 3.6%, 6.8%, and 12.35% of CO, NOx, and smoke, respectively. The specific fuel consumption and CO2 emissions were reduced by 5.2% and 2.8%, respectively, for B25 fuel blends compared to plain diesel and B50. Concerning cost competitiveness, vigorous research on microalgae for the production of biodiesel can cut production costs in the future. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Sustainable conversion of waste corn oil into biofuel over different forms of synthetic muscovite based K+/Na+sodalite as basic catalysts; Characterization and mechanism
Novel types of sodalite enriched in both K+ and Na+ ions were synthesized from muscovite at different time intervals (24 h (SD-24), 48 (SD-48), and 72 h (SD-72)). The samples displayed changes in their morphologies and observable increment in the surface area, total basicity, and ion exchange capacity with increasing the synthesis period. The samples were used as potential basic catalysts in the transesterification of the waste products of corn oil. The produced sodalite sample after 48 h (SD-48) achieved the best catalytic activity and the best biodiesel yield (95.4%). This yield was obtained after 120 min at 70 C using 16:1 methanol-to corn oil molar ratio and 4 wt., % SD-48 loading. The achieved yields by SD-24 and SD-72 are 84.7% and 90.5%, respectively. The higher activity of SD-48 (95.4%) than SD-24 (84.7%) related to its high surface area and total basicity. The lower activity of SD-72 (90.5%) than SD-48 (95.4%) related to its very high ion exchange capacity which increases the saponification reactions in the existence of K+ and Na+ ions at high concentrations. The used SD-48 catalyst shows significant regeneration belongings and reused in five cycles producing valuable biodiesel yields. Technically, the resulted biodiesel from the waste product of corn oil over SD-48 is of acceptable international qualification which prompts the large-scale use of the catalyst. The Author(s). Published by IOP Publishing Ltd.

Waste-derived green nanocatalyst for biodiesel production: Kinetic-mechanism deduction and optimization studies
This research focuses on deducing the kinetic mechanism for biodiesel production catalyzed by a CaO nanocatalyst derived from waste cockle shells via thermal hydration–dehydration treatment. In addition, the CaO nanocatalyst preparation method via thermal hydration–dehydration-related parameters (hydration duration, recalcination temperature, and recalcination duration) was studied and optimized. The transesterification reaction catalyzed by the CaO nanocatalyst followed the Langmuir–Hinshelwood kinetic mechanism with surface reaction as the rate-limiting step. The relatively low activation energy (3786.7 J/mol) for a transesterification reaction offered by the CaO nanocatalyst enhanced the reaction rate to 27.3% FAME yield/hr. The optimal conditions for the thermal hydration–dehydration treatment used to develop the nano CaO catalyst were 6 h of hydration duration, 650◦ C of recalcination temperature, and 3 h of recalcination duration. Of biodiesel yield, 94.13% was obtained at a moderate temperature of 60◦ C and 3 h reaction time during the transesterification of palm oil catalyzed by the nano-CaO. SEM, BET, and TPD results proved that the CaO nanocatalyst had a large surface area (13.9113 m2 /g) and high pore volume (0.0318 cm3 /g) that were rich in active sites (1046.46 µmol CO2 /g), and the pore diameter (33.17 nm) was accessible to reactants and products. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Effects of oxygen vacancy defect on microwave pyrolysis of biomass to produce high-quality syngas and bio-oil: Microwave absorption and in-situ catalytic
This paper proposed to use ferric oxide (Fe2O3) and ferroferric oxide (Fe3O4) as catalysts with both microwave absorption and catalytic properties. Carbon dioxide (CO2) was introduced as the reaction atmosphere to further improve the quality of biofuel produced by microwave pyrolysis of food waste (FW). The results showed the bio-gas yield and the syngas concentration (H2 + CO) increased to 70.34 wt% and 61.50 mol%, respectively, using Fe3O4 as the catalyst. The content of aliphatic hydrocarbons in bio-oil produced with the catalyst Fe2O3 increased to 67.48% and the heating value reached 30.45 MJ/kg. Compared with Fe2O3 catalyst, Fe3O4 exhibited better microwave absorption properties and catalytic properties. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) characterizations confirmed that the crystal surface of Fe3O4 formed more oxygen vacancy defects and unpaired electrons. Additionally, according to the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis, the content of lattice oxygen in Fe3O4 was 14.11%, a value that was much lower than Fe2O3 (38.54%). The oxygen vacancy defects not only improved the efficient utilization of microwave energy but also provided the reactive sites for the reaction between the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and CO2 to generate CO. This paper provides a new perspective for selecting catalysts that have both microwave absorption and catalytic properties during the microwave pyrolysis of biomass. 

Taguchi orthogonal design assisted immobilization of Candida rugosa lipase onto nanocellulose-silica reinforced polyethersulfone membrane: physicochemical characterization and operational stability
A greener processing route to replace the current environmentally-unfriendly esterification technique to produce biofuels such as pentyl valerate (PeVa) was explored. This study statistically optimized the covalent immobilization of Candida rugosa lipase (CRL) onto biomass-based nanocellulose-silica (NC-SiO2) reinforced polyethersulfone (PES) membrane to synthesize PeVa. Raman spectroscopy, field emission scanning electron microscopy, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy, and atomic force microscopy of NC-SiO2-PES/CRL proved that CRL was successfully conjugated to the membrane. The optimized Taguchi Design-assisted immobilization of CRL onto NC-SiO2-PES membrane (5% glutaraldehyde, 4 h of immobilization, 20 mg/mL CRL concentration, 40 °C and pH 5) gave 90% yield of PeVa in 3 h. The thermal stability of NC-SiO2-PES/CRL was ~ 30% greater over the free CRL, with reusability for up to 14 successive esterification cycles. In a nutshell, the greener NC-SiO2-PES membrane effectively hyperactivated and stabilized the CRL for the esterification production of PeVa. This research provides a promising approach for expanding the use of sustainably sourced NC and SiO2 nanoparticles, as fillers in a PES for improving CRL activity and durability for an extended catalytic process. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

Structure-tunable pompon-like RuCo catalysts: Insight into the roles of atomically dispersed Ru-Co sites and crystallographic structures for guaiacol hydrodeoxygenation
Currently, the highly efficient conversion of biomass resources into highly valuable chemicals and biofuels is one of the most prospective approaches to reduce greenhouse gases emission and environmental pollution caused by excess consumption of fossil fuels. Herein, three-dimensional pompon-like well-defined RuCo particles with tunable crystallographic structures and surface atomically dispersed Ru atoms were constructed and intensively investigated as support-free metal catalysts in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin-derived guaiacol. It was demonstrated that the 300 °C-reduced RuCo sample possessed the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) crystallographic structure with surface abundant atomically dispersed Ru atoms, whereas 600 °C-reduced RuCo sample presented the face-centered cubic phase with lower surface Ru concentration. The as-fabricated RuCo-300 sample showed excellent catalytic HDO activity with a high cyclohexane yield of 85.3%. Comprehensive structural characterizations unveiled that the introduction of atomically dispersed Ru atoms into the RuCo-300 favored the formation of abundant surface Ru-Co sites, as well as electron-rich Ru0, and such-constructed Ru-Co sites were highly beneficial to the hydrogen dissociation on single Ru0 atoms and the further hydrogen spillover to adjacent Co0 atoms to promote the HDO process. Moreover, density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that the hcp structure of RuCo catalysts benefited the adsorption of guaiacol. The unique pompon-like microstructure of RuCo catalysts was conducive to the exposure of active sites and provided more open channels for the easy diffusion of reactants and products. Over the RuCo-300 catalyst, the guaiacol HDO could proceed rapidly via an initial demethoxylation reaction. The present Ru-Co synergetic catalysis in the structure of RuCo catalysts would provide a new strategy for constructing robust heterogeneous bimetal catalysts applied in practical HDO processes of a variety of lignin-derived phenolic compounds. Elsevier Inc.

Modelling and process optimization for biodiesel production from Nannochloropsis salina using artificial neural network
In the present investigation, calcium oxide solid nanocatalyst derived from the egg shell and Nannochloropsis salina were used for the production of biodiesel. The morphological characteristics and functional groups of synthesized nanocatalyst was characterized by SEM and FTIR analysis. Process variables optimization for biodiesel production was studied using RSM and ANN. The R2 values for RSM and ANN was found to be 0.8751 and 0.957 which showed that the model was significantly fit with the experimental data. The maximum FAME conversion for the synthesized nanocatalyst CaO was found to be 86.1% under optimum process conditions (nanocatalyst amount: 3% (w/v); oil to methanol ratio 1:6 (v/v); reaction temperature: 60 °C; reaction time 55 min). Concentration of FAME present in biodiesel was identified by GC–MS analysis. 

One-pot conversion of sesame cake to low N-content biodiesel via nano-catalytic supercritical methanol
The fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) and H2 were produced from sesame cake in supercritical mixture of methanol and water using alumina supported CaO and MgO nanoparticles. The fresh and used catalysts were characterized by ICP-OES, BET, XRD, and TEM techniques. The significant influence of catalysts on the gas production was revealed. Further, the highest amounts of H2, CO, and CO2 was achieved by MgO/γ-Al2O3 with the hydrogen fraction more than 7.6 times, compared with the non-catalytic process. For biodiesel, CaO/γ-Al2O3 showed the best performance where 35.3% of the liquid product was FAMEs, more than 2.3 times relative to the non-catalytic process. In order to reduce the amounts of nitrogenate content in the liquid fuel, an efficient and scalable method implemented with the Soxhlet apparatus and the absorption tube equipped with CO2 gas flow system. Accordingly, the N-contents of the liquid products were reduced to highest degree of 65.2%, asserting that the reduced amount of the N-content strongly depends on the catalyst during the production process. 

Synthesis of MnFe2O4@graphene oxide catalyst for biodiesel production from waste edible oil
In this study, biodiesel production from waste edible oil (WEO) using MnFe2O4/graphene oxide catalyst was investigated. For this purpose, the surface characterization of the catalyst was determined using SEM, EDX/Map, XRD, VSM, BET, TGA-DTG, CO2-TPD and FTIR analyses. The catalyst could be easily removed from the reactant due to its paramagnetic property. The BET analysis showed that the MnFe2O4/GO catalyst has a significant specific surface area, which is suitable for the transesterification reaction. Also, the CO2-TPD analysis showed that the MnFe2O4/GO catalyst has two broad and strong peaks at a temperature range of 800–900 °C, which indicates strong interactions between CO2 and active sites on the catalyst surface. Moreover, the total number of basic sites on the catalyst surface was obtained 3978.6 μmol of CO2/g of the catalyst, which is a significant value. Due to the presence of high free fatty acids (2.43 wt%) in the WEO, a hydrochloric acid catalyst was used to reduce free fatty acid content before the transesterification process using the MnFe2O4/GO catalyst. The highest biodiesel yield was obtained 96.47%, which was a remarkable value compared to previous works. According to HNMR analysis, a peak was observed at 3.7 ppm, which was attributed to the methoxy group (O–CH3) on the methyl ester, indicating that biodiesel was properly produced. Then, biodiesel was blended with petro-diesel in various proportions (B25–B100) to improve its physical properties. According to the results, the physical characteristics of the biodiesel like flash point, viscosity, cloud point, density and pour point were obtained 176 °C, 5.4 mm2/s, 5 °C, −1 °C, and 882 kg/m3, respectively. Among these properties, the cloud point is not suitable and demonstrates that pure biodiesel can't be used in the engine in cold weather and should be used in combination with diesel. However, other properties were within the standard range. 

Synthesis and characterization of coal fly ash supported zinc oxide catalyst for biodiesel production using used cooking oil as feed
Coal fly ash-zinc oxide composite (CFA/ZnO) was developed, characterized and applied as a catalyst in the transesterification of used cooking oil (UCO) with methanol to obtain biodiesel. The prepared supported catalyst was characterized by TGA/DTA, gas sorption, TEM-EDX, FTIR and XRD techniques. Taguchi design approach was used for the optimization of biodiesel synthesis from UCO. Amongst the studied process variables, reaction temperature, reaction time and methanol/oil molar ratio most significantly affected the biodiesel yield and fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) content. At the optimum temperature of 140 °C, the time of 3 h, methanol/oil molar ratio of 12:1 and catalyst loading of 0.5 wt%, the biodiesel yield was 83.17%. The FAME content of the biodiesel produced was found to be 98.14 wt%. Moreover, the catalyst regeneration and reusability were studied to verify its stability, and it was established that the CFA-ZnO could be reused for up to four successive cycles with negligible loss in performance. 

Near-room temperature transesterification over bifunctional CunO-Bs/SBA-15 catalyst for biodiesel production
The transesterification of triglycerides is a critical step in biodiesel production. In this work, by loading boron-doped copper oxides onto SBA-15 mesoporous molecular sieve, an acid-base bifunctional catalyst (i.e., CunO-Bs/SBA-15) was prepared and applied to triglyceride transesterification. Compared with pure copper, sodium or boron oxides-based catalysts, CunO-Bs/SBA-15 enabled a higher biodiesel yield (>97.5%) at near room temperature (i.e., 40 °C) in 120 min. The characterization results showed that after B doping, the CunO-Bs/SBA-15 catalyst contained highly-dispersed acid-base sites without blocking the channels of porous SBA-15 support, which had good catalytic performance. Finally, in-situ DRIFTS was used to reveal the catalytic mechanism of the acid-base bifunctional groups of the as-prepared CunO-Bs/SBA-15 during transesterification. 

Recent advances and viability in biofuel production
The fossil fuel issues due to toxic carbon dioxide emissions and climate change have a direct link with the particulate matter that has caused severe threat to the environment. The bio-based products such as biodiesel and bio-compressed natural gas (Bio-CNG) can be less expensive and adaptable. Biofuels are increasingly being used in transportation, heat, and power development requiring the need for renewable sources of energy. This review highlights the use of dreck organic matters from aquatic environment and soil supplies for renewable energy production for human requirements, sustaining a clean and healthy environment. Dreck can be harnessed to manufacture bioenergy that would help to mitigate greenhouse gases and preserve the environment. Methane, hydrogen, ethanol, bioelectricity, algal diesel, and butanol, or other forms of fuels provide a renewable supply of bioenergy, which can be created by the biological systems. The waste-to-energy methodologies (thermal plus biochemical) for energy production via agro-residues are covered. The key focus of this study is the recent advances in the area of 'synchronous waste mitigation with energy development' techniques. This review addresses the significance of organic substances for the production of clean and renewable energy, including alternate solutions for non-renewable fuels. The needs for appropriate and renewable alternatives for fossil fuels are discussed. The Authors

The immobilization of yeast for fermentation of macroalgae Rhizoclonium sp. for efficient conversion into bioethanol
Macroalgae are considered to be one of the rich lignocellulosic biomass materials. Aquatic biomass has gained more attention to biofuels generation in recent years due to its renewable, abundant, and environmentally friendly aspects. Macroalgae are photosynthetic organisms that are found in both marine and freshwater environments. These are considered as a third-generation feedstock for the production of biofuels since they have the ability to synthesize a high amount of lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates. This research study aimed to evaluate the potential of bioethanol production from macroalgae (Rhizoclonium sp.) biomass. The fermentation process was applied in the research by two-way separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF). Algae biomass undergoes a pretreatment process to release necessary sugars for yeast digestion. The fermentation process was carried at 30 to 35 °C in the incubator. Finally, the percentage of ethanol was estimated by the ebulliometer. Fermentation was enhanced by immobilization of yeast, which showed the highest concentration of ethanol (65.43 ± 18.13 g/l) after 96 h of fermentation and can be reused for several times for fermentation. Moreover, these study results confirmed that freshwater macroalgae biomass is a suitable and susceptible raw material for bioethanol production., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Improved biofuel quality in catalytic cracking of triglyceride-rich biomass over nanocrystalline and hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts
Catalytic cracking of triglycerides over nanosized ZSM-5 (Nano-ZSM-5) and hierarchical ZSM-5 materials namely mesoporous ZSM-5 (Meso-ZSM-5) and nanosized ZSM-5/SBA-15 analog composite (Com-ZSM-5) was evaluated under fluid catalytic cracking conditions aiming to reduce the concentration of aromatics, especially benzene in the gasoline stream. The catalytic experiments were performed in a Single-Receiver Short-Contact-Time Microactivity Test unit (SR-SCT-MAT, Grace Davison) at 500 °C, catalyst-to-oil ratios of 0.3–1.0 (w/w) and contact time of 12 s. It was shown that the reduction of the ZSM-5 crystal size to nanometer (Nano-ZSM-5) or introduction of hierarchical porosity in ZSM-5 crystals (Meso-ZSM-5 and Com-ZSM-5) indeed improved the quality of gasoline by lowering the content of aromatics, particularly benzene. Compared to commercial ZSM-5, Meso-ZSM-5 and Nano-ZSM-5 produced more gasoline hydrocarbons while lowering the benzene content to ca. 2.0%, a relative decrease by ca. 50%. The advantage of Com-ZSM-5 over Meso-ZSM-5 and Nano-ZSM-5 was the lowest benzene level, i.e. ca. 0.8% which was below the permitted limit of less than 1% specified by the European regulation. The improved molecular transport along with the reduced density of strong Brønsted acid sites provided by the nanocrystalline and hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts might be responsible for their superior catalytic performance., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Density Functional Theory Investigation of the Conversion of 5-(Hydroxymethyl)furfural into 2,5-Dimethylfuran over the Pd(111), Cu(111), and Cu3Pd(111) Surfaces
The conversion of 5-(hydroxymethyl)furfural (5-HMF) into 2,5-dimethylfuran (2,5-DMF) via cascade hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis over metallic catalysts has been considered a promising method to produce high-energy-content biofuel. Understanding the adsorption of reactants, cascade reactions, and desorption of byproducts is essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts. Herein, the most plausible reaction mechanisms for the conversion of 5-HMF to 2,5-DMF over the Pd(111), Cu(111), and Cu3Pd(111) surfaces are investigated using density functional theory calculations. The reaction pathways for the formation of reaction intermediates (2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan, 5-methylfurfural, and 5-methylfurfuryl alcohol (5-MFA)), 2,5-DMF, and byproducts (water, 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran (2,5-DMTHF)) are established. The overall reaction barrier on the Pd(111) surface, which is governed by the hydrogenolysis of the C-OH bonds in 5-MFA, is larger (1.96 eV) than that on the Cu3Pd(111) surface (1.68 eV). In addition, the significantly higher adsorption energy of 2,5-DMF on the Pd(111) surface (-2.47 eV) than on the Cu3Pd(111) surface (-0.18 eV), which is caused by the flat adsorption geometry with a η2-(C-O)-aldehyde configuration, leads to the formation of 2,5-DMTHF via furan ring saturation. Even though the overall energy barrier on the Cu(111) surface (0.84 eV) is much lower than those on the Pd(111) and Cu3Pd(111) surfaces, the weak perpendicular adsorption of 5-HMF in a η1-(O)-aldehyde configuration, highly unfavorable dissociative H2 adsorption, and high energy required for the formation of H2O hinder the conversion of 5-HMF and its intermediates. The favorable adsorption of 5-HMF (-0.54 eV), low overall reaction barrier, facile desorption of 2.5-DMF (-0.18 eV), and low energy barrier for dissociative H2 adsorption render the Pd-Cu alloy catalyst a promising candidate for the selective conversion of 5-HMF to 2,5-DMF. American Chemical Society.

Electrolytic transesterification of waste frying oil using Na+/zeolite–chitosan biocomposite for biodiesel production
Given the economic and environmental advantages of using Waste Fried Oil (WFO) as a starting material, this investigation explores the conversion of WFO to Fatty Acid Methyl Ester (FAME) via electrolysis for use in waste. In electrolysis, hydroxyl ions are generated from water in close proximity to the cathode. When hydroxyl ions react with methanol, they produce a species of nucleophilic methoxide which is the main actor in converting WFO into FAME. This study specifically investigates the effects of voltage, catalyst concentration, co solvent amount, rotation speed, and molar ratio of methanol to WFO in electrolytic transesterification converting WFO into FAME using graphite electrodes in the presence of a heterogeneous, catalytic zeolite–chitosan composite. With an alcohol to WFO molar ratio of 8:1, 1 wt% zeolite-chitosan composite concentration at 40 V in the presence of 2 wt% H2O of the whole solution at room temperature and stirrer rate of 400 rpm and reaction time of 30 min, a 96.5% yield of FAME was achieved. Characterization of physical and biodiesel fuel properties was performed using American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) methods. The biocomposite was characterized using Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR), X–ray Diffraction (XRD), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET), Thermogravimetric analysis (TG), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Energy Dispersive X–ray spectrometry (EDX). Finally, the physical properties of FAME produced under optimal conditions were studied using Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry (GC–MS), FTIR, surface tension, and viscosity. 

Graphitic carbon embedded FeNi nanoparticles for efficient deoxygenation of stearic acid without using hydrogen and solvent
Upgrading fatty acids to hydrocarbons via deoxygenation is significant for the synthesis of high-grade biofuels. Developing economic reaction conditions without using noble metal-based catalysts in the absence of hydrogen and solvent has promising application prospects. Herein, carbon-coated bimetallic FeNi nanoparticles were prepared via an in-situ carbonization-reduction strategy using double-metal cyanide at different temperatures for the deoxygenation of stearic acid. The size of the alloy core and the thickness of the carbon shell were found to be easily adjusted by varying temperature. Compared with monometallic Fe/C and Ni/C catalysts, the alloy catalyst exhibits an obvious improvement in both the conversion of stearic acid and the selectivity of heptadecane. ATR-IR spectra show that the insertion of the inert Fe element into Ni nanoparticles can promote carboxylic acid group adsorption but restrain hydrocarbon group adsorption. The synergistic effect of Fe and Ni elements leads to the promotion of direct decarboxylation of stearic acid and suppression of the C–C cracking reaction. Among different alloy catalysts studied, FeNi@C-800 exhibits the greatest catalytic performance with a 99.9% conversion of stearic acid and 76.8% selectivity for heptadecane. Furthermore, the catalyst can still maintain a stable catalytic performance against the leaching and ripening of metal through the protection afforded by the carbon shell. This work not only provides a powerful reaction system for the decarboxylation of stearic acid but also demonstrates an alternative catalyst to noble metals based on a convenient carbonization-reduction strategy. 

Progress in thermochemical conversion of duckweed and upgrading of the bio-oil: A critical review
The processing of duckweed has been included in the list of promising pathways for biofuels production. This property is attributed to its simple manual harvesting method and its ability for high protein or starch content, depending on its species and growing environment. The biofuels production from duckweed, is not only a solution to energy and environmental problems, but also a reliable way to realize the utilization of duckweed. This critical review focuses on the bio-oil production from duckweed via pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction processes. First, characteristics and eco-environmental benefits of duckweed are reviewed. Next, the impacts of different parameters on the properties and distribution of bio-oil from pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction are discussed in detail. Subsequently, the effect of hydrogen donor solvents (as reaction media for upgrading) and catalysts on the upgrading of duckweed bio-oil are extensively discussed. This paper ends with the prospects for further development in thermochemical valorization of duckweed. Elsevier B.V.

Covalent immobilization of lipase from Candida rugosa on epoxy-activated cloisite 30B as a new heterofunctional carrier and its application in the synthesis of banana flavor and production of biodiesel
In this paper, an epoxy-activated cloisite (ECL) was prepared as a new heterofunctional carrier via a reaction between cloisite 30B (CL) and epichlorohydrin and utilized for covalent immobilization of lipase from Candida rugosa. The lipase immobilized on the ECL (LECL) was successfully used in the olive oil hydrolysis, synthesis of isoamyl acetate (banana flavor), and biodiesel production. The TGA, FT-IR, SEM, and XRD were used to characterize CL, ECL, and LECL. The influences of temperature, pH, thermal stability, and storage capacity were examined in the olive oil hydrolysis. The effects of solvent, temperature, time, water content, and substrates molar ratio on the yields of ester and biodiesel were also investigated. In the optimized conditions, the hydrolytic activity of LECL was 1.85 ± 0.05 U/ mg, and the maximum yield of ester and biodiesel was 91.6% and 95.4%, respectively. The LECL showed good thermal stability and storage capacity compared to the free lipase. Additionally, LECL was reusable for both esterification and transesterification after being used for nine cycles. Elsevier B.V.

Kinetic and optimization study of sustainable biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using novel heterogeneous solid base catalyst
The novel Na-SiO2@TiO2 heterogeneous base catalyst was designed and successfully applied to the trans-esterification reaction of waste cooking oil for sustainable biodiesel production. The designed catalyst was characterized by SEM, XPS, FT-IR and BET before treatment, illustrated its suitability for the catalytic trans-esterification reaction. Moreover, the influence of reaction temperature, time, catalyst concentration and WCO:MeOH molar ratio on the catalytic activity were also investigated, resultant 98% biodiesel yield was achieved. The reusability test demonstrated that the Na-SiO2@TiO2 catalyst has noticeable catalytic potency up to 5 successive runs. Besides, the kinetics study explains that the reaction is kinetically controlled by pseudo 1st order. The Ea was found to be 21.65 kJ/mol. Similarly, the important thermodynamic parameters such as ΔH#, ΔS# and ΔG# were estimated to be 18.52 kJ.mol−1, −219.17 J.mol−1K−1 and 92.59 kJ.mol−1 respectively. 

A practical approach for synthesis of biodiesel via non-edible seeds oils using trimetallic based montmorillonite nano-catalyst
The potential of new trimetallic (Ce, Cu, La) loaded montmorillonite clay catalyst for synthesizing biodiesel using novel non-edible Celastrus paniculatus Willd seed oil via two-step transesterification reaction has been reported along with catalyst characterization. Transesterification reaction was optimized and maximum biodiesel yield of 89.42% achieved under optimal operating reaction states like; 1:12 oil to methanol ratio, 3.5% of catalyst amount, 120 °C of reaction temperature for 3 h. The predicted and experimental biodiesel yields under these reaction conditions were 89.42 and 89.40%, which showing less than 0.05% variation. Additionally, optimum biodiesel yield can be predicted by drawing 3D surface plots and 2D contour plots using MINITAB 17 software. For the characterization of the obtained biodiesel, analysis including the GC/MS, FT-IR, 1H NMR and 13C NMR were applied. The fuel properties of obtained biodiesel agrees well with the different European Union (EU-14214), China (GB/T 20828), and American (ASTM-951, 6751) standards. 

A promoter effect on hydrodeoxygenation reactions of oleic acid by zeolite beta catalysts
In this study, various metal-modified zeolite beta-based catalysts such as La(10)zeo(90), Co(10)zeo(90), Fe(10)zeo(90), Mg(10)zeo(90), Mn(10)zeo(90) and Zn(10)zeo(90) were investigated in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of oleic acid (OA) to produce renewable diesel. The La(10)zeo(90) catalyst showed a conversion of OA up to 99 % with 83 % C15 and C17 selectivity after the reaction at 350 °C for 2 h under 4 MPa H2 pressure. The superior activity of La(10)zeo(90) was attributed to the synergistic interaction between La-Si-Al, a sufficient amount of weak + medium acid sites and excellent textural properties (large pore diameter). Larger pore diameter of La(10)zeo(90) is highly desirable as it will generate greater diffusion of bulky molecules, thereby improving the accessibility of the reactant and hence excellent catalytic activity. The vacuum distillation was used to purify the crude liquid product (CLP), producing high-quality diesel fractions mainly comprising C14, C15, and C17 fractions. Elsevier B.V.

Facial synthesis of ferric molybdate (Fe2(MoO4)3) nanoparticle and its efficiency for biodiesel synthesis via oleic acid esterification
Catalytic esterification of fatty acids, such as oleic acid, is one of the most important chemical pathways for producing biofuels, and attention is now focused on looking for heterogeneous catalysts to avoid the defects of homogeneous catalysts. With this approach, an efficient Lewis acidic catalyst, Fe2(MoO4)3, was successfully prepared with definite crystalline morphology to catalyze the esterification reaction of oleic acid together with ethanol. Under optimum conditions (70 °C, 9 alcohol: 1 oleic molar ratio and 3% catalyst amount), the catalytic conversion of oleic acid to biodiesel was 90.5% and 92.5 in case of 5% catalyst, indicating that the combined catalyst has good catalytic activity. The kinetic study of ethanol–oleic acid esterification was conducted, as the kinetic study follows first-order kinetics with the calculated activation energy Ea = 25.21 kJ mol−1 and pre-exponential factor A0 = 2449.16 min−1. Thermodynamic showed a positive value of ΔH, ΔS, and ΔG (endothermic reaction). Elsevier B.V.

Lipase-PDA-TiO2 NPs: An emphatic nano-biocatalyst for optimized biodiesel production from Jatropha curcas oil
Current study was designed for developing the novel nano-biocatalyst (Lipase-PDA-TiO2 NPs) for enzymatic transesterification of Jatropha curcas seed oil (JCSO). The TiO2 NPs were prepared by the hydrothermal method and were afterward modified by the polydopamine (PDA) polymer. The synthesized nanomaterial was characterized by SEM, FTIR, XRD and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy. Lipase activity assay was used to check the stability of immobilized enzyme under varying conditions of pH and temperature. Transesterification of JCSO using Lipase-PDA-TiO2 NPs catalyst was optimized by response surface methodology (RSM). Optimum biodiesel yield (92%) was achieved by carrying out the transesterification process for 30 h at 37 °C temperature with 10% nano-biocatalyst concentration, 6:1 methanol:oil ratio and 0.5% water content. On the basis of model significance, R2 value, lack of fit test and predicted vs. actual values, quadratic model was selected as the best fitted model. The FTIR technique was utilized to monitor the transesterification process. The comparison of the physiochemical characteristics of the synthesized biodiesel with the international standard for bio-fuel affirms that the transesterification of JCSO in the presence of the nano-biocatalyst provides an effective alternative for the production of biodiesel. 

Biodiesel production from edible oils using algal biochar/CaO/K2CO3 as a heterogeneous and recyclable catalyst
A new heterogeneous biochar/CaO/K2CO3 catalyst was fabricated to produce biodiesel from waste edible oil. In this catalyst, the biochar was produced from brown algae of Sargassum oligocystum and CaO from eggshells. The XRD result showed that the biochar, CaO, and synthesized catalyst have a crystalline structure. Response surface methodology-central composite design (RSM-CCD) and artificial neural network (ANN) methods were used to investigate the effect of parameters and determine optimal conditions. Also, the maximum efficiency of biodiesel production (98.83%) was predicted by the RSM-CCD method at 65 °C, 4 wt% catalyst content, 200 min duration, and 18: 1 methanol to oil ratio. The process of biodiesel production was exothermic. The activation energy and frequency factor were calculated 45.53 kJ/mol and 6.03 × 10+4 min−1, respectively. Biodiesel properties were evaluated according to international standards (ASTM D6751 and EN14214). The catalyst was reused for up to 90% efficiency in up to 5 steps. 

Synthesis of the SrO–CaO–Al2O3 trimetallic oxide catalyst for transesterification to produce biodiesel
Calcium oxide is one of the most promising heterogeneous catalysts for biodiesel production. However, an inherent drawback of CaO is the leaching of active species into the reaction solution with the degraded reusability. To strengthen the stability, different supports are composited with the SrO–CaO oxide through the hydrothermal method and mass ratio of SrO to CaO are optimized to get the best outcome of the catalyst. Meanwhile, various characterization methods, including TG, XRD, SEM-EDX, CO2-TPD, XPS, ATR-FTIR and ICP-AES, are used to explore the physicochemical properties of catalysts. The 0.4-SrO-CaO-Al2O3 catalyst shows the best catalytic capability in transesterification of palm oil with methanol to produce biodiesel, where the FAME yield of 98.16% is achieved with the molar ratio of methanol to oil of 18:1 and catalyst concentration of 7.5 wt% at 65 °C for 3 h. Besides, ascribed to the greatly reduced leaching out of the active species, this catalyst presents the satisfying reusability and the FAME yield is slightly decreased to 92.61% for the fifth reused cycle. Therefore, this modification method for SrO–CaO–Al2O3 is feasible for enhancing the catalytic stability in transesterification. 

Design and synthesis of novel amphipathic ionic liquids for biodiesel production from soapberry oil
Biodiesel produced from non-edible oils has received intensive attention in recent years. Herein, a series of novel amphipathic ionic liquids (ILs) based on the 4-dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP) were prepared for the transesterification of soapberry oil and methanol. The structures of the prepared ILs were systematically characterized by both Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR, 1H NMR and 13C NMR). In addition, the effects of side-chain length of cation and the number of active site (H+) of ILs on the biodiesel yield were investigated, and the results suggested that 1-dodecyl-(4-dimethylammonium)-pyridinium bisulfate ([C12-DMAPH][HSO4]2) exhibited the highest catalytic efficiency. Meanwhile, [C12-DMAPH][HSO4]2 was proven to be amphipathic, and the corresponding catalytic mechanism was proposed. Under the catalysis of [C12-DMAPH][HSO4]2, the optimum operating conditions of transesterification of soapberry oil and methanol were explored via the combination of single factor experiment and response surface methodology, obtaining the high biodiesel yield of (98.02 ± 0.36)% under the optimum operating conditions. Importantly, [C12-DMAPH][HSO4]2 exhibited high stability in the transesterification of soapberry oil and methanol in five consecutive runs. Furthermore, the catalytic activities of [C12-DMAPH][HSO4]2 towards other transesterification of non-edible oils and lower alcohols were also investigated, which indicated a general applicability of the prepared IL. 

Kinetics models of transesterification reaction for biodiesel production: A theoretical analysis
The kinetics of the transesterification reaction has been explored theoretically. A general rate equation (GRE) was obtained for kinetics modeling of transesterification at the entire time of reaction based on a three-step mechanism. It has been shown that the GRE model converts to a Second-Order (SO) model at short initial times of reaction and it converts to Pseudo-First-Order (PFO) model at short initial times of reaction and high concentration of alcohol. Also, a modified form of the Second-Order model (MSO) was derived when the reaction is spontaneous (at ΔrG≪0 conditions or at short initial times of reaction). The accuracy of theoretical models and our assumptions was evaluated by three sets of experimental data selected at literature. It has been shown that the accuracy of PFO, SO, and MSO models followed the order of MSO &gt; SO &gt; PFO at short initial times while the GRE model is a suitable kinetics model at the entire times of reaction. Also, our research, contrary to what has been reported so far in published papers, shows that pseudo-first-order and second-order models are only accurate for kinetics modeling of the transesterification reaction at short initial times of reaction. 

Effect of nanocatalysts on the transesterification reaction of first, second and third generation biodiesel sources- A mini-review
Biodiesel is a fuel that has numerous benefits over traditional petrodiesel. The transesterification process is the most popular method for biodiesel production from various sources, categorized as first, second and third generation biodiesel depending on the source. The transesterification process is subject to a variety of factors that can be taken into account to improve biodiesel yield. One of the factors is catalyst type and concentration, which plays a significant role in the transesterification of biodiesel sources. At present, chemical and biological catalysts are being investigated and each catalyst has its advantages and disadvantages. Recently, nanocatalysts have drawn researchers’ attention to the efficient production of biodiesel. This article discusses recent work on the role of several nanocatalysts in the transesterification reaction of various sources in the development of biodiesel. A large number of literature from highly rated journals in scientific indexes is reviewed, including the most recent publications. Most of the authors reported that nanocatalysts show an important influence regarding activity and selectivity. This study highlights that in contrast to conventional catalysts, the highly variable surface area of nanostructure materials favours interaction between catalysts and substrates that efficiently boost the performance of products. Finally, this analysis provides useful information to researchers in developing and processing cost-effective biodiesel. 

Efficient Transfer Hydrogenolysis of 5-Hydromethylfurfural to 2,5-Dimethylfuran over CoFe Bimetallic Catalysts Using Formic Acid as a Sustainable Hydrogen Donor
Currently, developing high-performance non-noble metal catalysts for the conversion of biomass-derived compounds to valuable chemicals or biofuels remains a great challenge. Herein, surface CoFeOx-decorated bimetallic CoFe catalysts were developed via a Co-Mg-Fe layered double hydroxide precursor strategy and utilized for the transfer hydrogenolysis of 5-hydromethylfurfural (HMF) into 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) with the help of formic acid as the sustainable hydrogen donor. The as-fabricated CoFe bimetallic catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic performance with a high yield of DMF (>92%). Contrarily, monometallic Co-based catalyst delivered a much lower DMF yield. The structural characterizations and catalytic experiments demonstrated that the catalytic behavior of bimetallic CoFe catalysts was correlated with the appropriate combination of highly dispersed bimetallic metallic nanoparticles and abundant oxygen vacancies originating from surface CoFeOx species, as well as favorable surface basic sites, thereby facilitating the dehydrogenation of formic acid and improving the affinity for carbonyl reduction, which promoted the selective hydrogenation/hydrogenolysis of carbonyl or hydroxymethyl group in HMF and reaction intermediates. Furthermore, excellent structural advantages of as-fabricated CoFe catalyst, such as high alloying degree of CoFe and strong metal-support interactions, endowed it with good stability and regeneration performance. The present bimetal-defect interfacial engineering strategy may provide a potential guide for the rational design of high-performance non-noble-metal catalysts for a variety of heterogeneous catalysis processes in terms of the conversion of biomass source. American Chemical Society.

A reusable magnetic nanocatalyst for bio-fuel additives: The ultrasound-assisted synthesis of solketal
Acetalization of glycerol into solketal, a potential fuel additive, is a promising approach to utilizing the large waste-stream of glycerol from the biodiesel industry. Herein, we report an efficient ultrasound-assisted room temperature synthesis of solketal by acetalization of glycerol with acetone using an easily recoverable sulfonic acid-functionalized, silica-coated Fe3O4magnetic nanoparticle (Fe3O4@SiO2@SO3H MNP, FSS MNP) catalyst. The morphology, chemical composition and magnetic properties of the catalyst were elucidated. The acetalization of glycerol was carried out under ultrasonication at room temperature, resulting in 97% glycerol conversion after 15 minutes and 95% isolated yield of solketal with 100% selectivity for this acetal. The facile magnetic retrievability of the catalyst imparted operational simplicity to the solketal synthetic protocol, avoiding complicated catalyst separation and product purification processes. The FSS catalyst was magnetically recycled for up to five catalytic experiments, maintaining a glycerol conversion of 95% and without deterioration in its selectivity, composition, morphology or magnetic properties, thereby ameliorating the green aspects of the protocol. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021.

A 4E analysis of renewable formic acid synthesis from the electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide and water: studying impacts of the anolyte material on the performance of the process
Carbon dioxide utilization (CDU) is one of the most critical approaches in climate change control. CDU's future depends on the future demand for carbon-derived products; among them, formic acid is an excellent candidate due to its distinctive characteristics as a hydrogen carrier in liquid form. It is non-toxic that can be used in hydrogen fuel cells, and its significant potential in the heavy oil and biofuel refining process as a hydrogen-carrier substance. This research aims to use Energy, Exergy, Exergoeconomic, and exergoenvironmental (4E) analysis to evaluate the impact of anolyte material on the efficiency of the electrochemical reduction process to synthesis formic acid (in the term of six new anolyte materials). Results show that the second scenario (IrO2 single circulation mode) is the best option for the power plant. Implementing this CDU system reduces the carbon capture of about 75.20 kg/s or about 89% of the power plant's overall carbon emission. This process's energy penalty can be adequately provided by the PV, which causes greater exergy efficiency and decreases the power plant's energy performance rate. Moreover, the use of IrO2 anolyte is decreased the exergy rate cost and the flow rate cost to the 0.21 $/kWh and 2.280×10-2 $/s. The CDU's investment cost using the DSA/O2 anolyte is 28% decreased compared to the KOH anolyte and reached 7.2 million USD for the CO2 utilization plant. 

Production of biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran using highly efficient single-step selective hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural over novel Pd-Co/Al-Zr mixed oxide catalyst
Sustainable and cleaner production of liquid biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) is in great demand. Because of its water insolubility, high boiling point, and high energy density, DMF seems to be a promising liquid biofuel. Selective hydrogenation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5-DMF can be achieved using novel catalysts and is presented here. In this study, a series of Al-Zr mixed oxide catalysts (AZMO) were prepared by co-precipitation and hydrothermal techniques. AZMO catalyst prepared by the co-precipitation method gave higher acidity and surface area. Furthermore, mono and bimetallic M/AZMOCP (M = Ni, Co, Cu, and Pd) catalysts were developed by the impregnation and used for hydrogenation of HMF. The catalytic activity was found in the order of: 2%Pd-5%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 1%Pd-5%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 2%Pd-3%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 1%Pd-3%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 5%Ni-5%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 1%Pd/AZMOCP &gt; 5%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 5%Cu-5%Co/AZMOCP &gt; 3%Co/AZMOCP. It was found that 2%Pd-5%Co/AZMOCP resulted in complete conversion of HMF with 97% yield of DMF at 100 °C and 10 atm H2 pressure. The catalysts were characterized by sophisticated techniques such as FESEM, EDS, XRD, NH3-TPD, ATR-FTIR, BET analysis, HRTEM, TPR, XPS and TGA-DSC. The reaction mechanism was developed based on dual-site Langmuir-Hinshelwood-Hougen-Watson (LHHW) model. The catalyst was highly selective and reusable. The overall process is clean and green. 

High-performance and stable Ru-Pd nanosphere catalyst supported on two-dimensional boron nitride nanosheets for the hydrogenation of furfural via water-mediated protonation
Bimetallic Ru-Pd catalysts are increasingly being investigated for applications in the upgrading of bio-oils to biofuels, owing to their high catalytic activities. Similarly, the recent development of Ru-Pd alloyed nanoparticle (NP) incorporated into hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) catalysts that can be utilized for tuning the selectivity of desired products has also received considerable attention. In the present study, nanoclusters of Ru0-Pd0 that self-assemble into spherical-like Ru-Pd bimetallic catalytic sites were successfully grown on the surfaces of BN nanosheets (Ru-Pd/BN NCs) via microwave irradiation for 30 s. HR-TEM investigations revealed the formation of 25 nm sized Ru-Pd nanoparticles comprising ≤ 2 nm hexagonal closed-pack (hcp) Ru-Pd clusters with Ru crystallites on the BN nanosheets. Further, furfural was effectively converted into furfural alcohol at a lower temperature (150 °C) and valuable cyclopentanone was obtained at a higher temperature (&gt;250 °C) over the Ru-Pd/BN catalyst through the protonation of water molecules. Furthermore, various solvents namely 2-propanol, toluene, and cyclohexane were also used to achieve the production of furan and tetrahydrofuran over the Ru-Pd/BN catalyst via the decarbonylation of furfural under mild reaction conditions. Moreover, for real-time upgrading, furfural-rich bio-oil produced by the pyrolysis of date-tree biomass was processed over the Ru-Pd/BN catalyst to obtain a maximum of 97% furfural conversion with a 71% FFA yield at 150 °C. The stability and reusability of the catalyst were also determined. The results demonstrated that the Ru-Pd/BN catalyst is highly active and chemically stable, and is therefore suitable for industrial applications. 

Metal-organic framework-based functional catalytic materials for biodiesel production: A review
Biodiesel is a type of widely recognized environmentally friendly and sustainable biofuel. The key point for the industrial manufacturing of biodiesel is its cost, especially the price of raw oil feedstocks. Oil feedstocks of low quality require highly effective catalysts with more active sites (e.g., acid, base, acid-base, and enzyme) for (trans)esterification. Metal-organic framework (MOF) is a kind of polyporous material that can control its pore size and topological structure to fit the requirements of the catalytic reactions or conversion routes. This review focuses on the application of MOF-based catalysts in the preparation of biodiesel. Two methods of linking the active sites with MOF are introduced including intermolecular forces and chemical bridging or bonding. Four kinds of MOF-based nanocatalysts (i.e., enzyme, base, acid, and bifunctional catalysts) are evaluated and compared with other heterogeneous catalysts. Besides, technologies such as ultrasound and microwave for MOF-based nanocatalyst applications to produce biodiesel through transesterification and esterification are described. Finally, a brief conclusion and perspective for MOF-based nanocatalyst that applies to biodiesel production are provided. The MOF-based functional catalytic materials show great potential in biodiesel production and other relevant biorefineries. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Ceria-promoted Co@NC catalyst for biofuel upgrade: synergy between ceria and cobalt species
Ceria-promoted Co@NC (NC, N doped carbon) catalysts are prepared by pyrolysis of biomass materials. Characterization results indicate that ceria and Co species facilitate the distribution of each other due to the formation of a Ce-O-Co solid solution. The specific surface area of the catalyst increased from 378.77 to 537.7 m2g−1viathe introduction of ceria. The electron transfer from Co to Ce further enhanced their interaction, and Co species facilitate the formation of more defective oxygen vacancies on ceria, which are beneficial to the activities of catalytic hydrogenation and catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH), respectively. Thus, Co/Ce@NC (0.99% Co loading) pyrolyzed at 850 °C exhibits excellent performance in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of vanillin with high metal utilization. Catalytic hydrogenation and CTH coexisted in the presence of H2and ethanol, and &gt;99% yield of creosol can be obtained in each of them. The reaction processes are monitored. No intermediate is found in aqueous media, while ethoxymethyl-4-methoxy-2-phenol is detected in ethanol. Moreover, Co/Ce@NC presents outstanding stability and general applicability. This work provides new insights into the construction of M@NC (M, metal) catalysts and the HDO process of biofuel upgrade. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021.

Environmentally adapted bio-oil compounds-derived polyolesters synthesis: Optimization and properties of base fluids
Non-edible bio-oil derived from lignocellulosic biomass could be used as environmentally friendly lubricant-ester base stock for maritime and road-type transportations. However, the use of crude bio-oil with highly oxygenated compounds required further upgrading to yield ester that mimicked the characteristics of Group V base oil (polyolesters). In this study, bio-oil based polyolesters was produced via esterification using green biopolymer alginate acid catalyst (Al-Alg). The bio-oil compounds used were acetic acid (AcA), propionic acid (PrA) and levulinic acid (LA), while polyols such as neopentyl glycol (NPG), trimethylolpropane (TMP) and pentaerythritol (PE) were used. Optimization studies revealed that NPG-PrA ester gave the best ester purity of 100%, with 95% of diester selectivity under optimum conditions of 15 wt% Al-Alg, 8 h, 6:1 PrA:NPG and 140 °C. The produced polyolesters showed potential lube characteristics with viscosity index of 76, kinematic viscosity of 2.3 mm2 s−1 at 40 °C and oxidative induction time of 15 min at 100 °C. Furthermore, a reusability study of the Al-Alg catalyst indicated high NPG-PrA diester selectivity (above 90%) for 8 consecutive cycles. The physico-chemical properties of spent Al-Alg catalyst were also discussed. Elsevier B.V.

Aluminum Metal-Organic Framework-Ligated Single-Site Nickel(II)-Hydride for Heterogeneous Chemoselective Catalysis
The development of chemoselective and heterogeneous earth-abundant metal catalysts is essential for environmentally friendly chemical synthesis. We report a highly efficient, chemoselective, and reusable single-site nickel(II) hydride catalyst based on robust and porous aluminum metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) (DUT-5) for hydrogenation of nitro and nitrile compounds to the corresponding amines and hydrogenolysis of aryl ethers under mild conditions. The nickel-hydride catalyst was prepared by the metalation of aluminum hydroxide secondary building units (SBUs) of DUT-5 having the formula of Al(μ2-OH)(bpdc) (bpdc = 4,4′-biphenyldicarboxylate) with NiBr2 followed by a reaction with NaEt3BH. DUT-5-NiH has a broad substrate scope with excellent functional group tolerance in the hydrogenation of aromatic and aliphatic nitro and nitrile compounds under 1 bar H2 and could be recycled and reused at least 10 times. By changing the reaction conditions of the hydrogenation of nitriles, symmetric or unsymmetric secondary amines were also afforded selectively. The experimental and computational studies suggested reversible nitrile coordination to nickel followed by 1,2-insertion of coordinated nitrile into the nickel-hydride bond occurring in the turnover-limiting step. In addition, DUT-5-NiH is also an active catalyst for chemoselective hydrogenolysis of carbon-oxygen bonds in aryl ethers to afford hydrocarbons under atmospheric hydrogen in the absence of any base, which is important for the generation of fuels from biomass. This work highlights the potential of MOF-based single-site earth-abundant metal catalysts for practical and eco-friendly production of chemical feedstocks and biofuels. American Chemical Society.

Biodiesel preparation from Thlaspi arvense L. seed oil utilizing a novel ionic liquid core-shell magnetic catalyst
In order to produce an alternative energy of biodiesel using field pennycress (Thlaspi arvense L.) seed oil, a novel Fe3O4/graphene oxide-phenylalanine bisulfate ionic liquid core-shell magnetic catalyst was developed. Ferroferric oxide nanoparticles and graphene oxide (GO) were employed to prepare a magnetic carrier of Fe3O4@GO nanocomposite which applied to immobilize phenylalanine bisulfate ionic liquid (PBIL). The immobilized PBIL was characterized by the means of characterization. The heterogeneous Fe3O4@GO@PBIL catalyst was demonstrated to have a high catalytic efficiency that reached 92.38 % of biodiesel yield under the optimal conditions (methanol/oil molar ratio of 10:1, reaction temperature of 60 °C, reaction time of 4 h, catalyst dosage of 25 wt%, stirring speed of 1500 r/min). After transesterification processes, the catalyst could be easily removed from the reaction mixture with an external magnet and showed little deactivation after multiple recycles. The main properties of biodiesel product were reconcilable with the range of test standards of ASTM D6751 and EN 14214. In summary, the prepared Fe3O4@GO@PBIL catalyst behaved a superiorly catalytic performance, which made the produced biodiesel possess the possibility of application to biofuel as an ideal substitution. Elsevier B.V.

Biodiesel production from transesterified waste cooking oil by zinc-modified anthill catalyst: Parametric optimization and biodiesel properties improvement
Biodiesel, an unconventional fuel to substitute the existing fossil diesel, is non-toxic, biodegradable, possesses high lubricity and better combustion capacity. In this paper, a new eco-friendly solid catalyst was developed from anthill-zinc modification for methanolysis of low-grade feedstock (waste cooking oil, WCO) to make biodiesel. The zinc-modified anthill was prepared via the sol-gel technique and characterized by EDX, TGA/DTA, FTIR, XRD, SEM, BET and CO2-TPD. The optimum experimental conditions obtained by a central composite design were 17.99:1, 0.51 wt%, and 66.54 °C for the molar ratio of methanol to WCO, catalyst loading and reaction temperature, respectively. At these optimum values, the highest experimentally obtained biodiesel yield was 83.16%, which matched the predicted value (82.71%) reasonably well with R2 = 0.9914. According to gas chromatography analysis, the fatty acid methyl ester conversion under optimum conditions was 97.05%. While 20% blending of biodiesel on a volume basis with petroleum-based diesel showed remarkable fuel properties, the catalyst exhibited better stability after being regenerated and reused for six cycles. This study extends the frontier of knowledge in the economical production of biofuels from waste products. .

LCA of sustainable biodiesel production from fried Borassus flabellifer oil in energy-proficient reactors: Impact assessment of multi fuel-additives on pour point, NOx and engine performance
Sustainable reductions in energy and time requirements in fried palm oil (Borassus flabellifer) biodiesel (FPOB) production (97% yield) have been achieved in differently powered reactors viz., low-energy infrared radiation (LEIR) (0.131 kWh) and LEIR with ultrasonic-energy (LEIRUE) (0.12 kWh) in comparison with conventional heating energy (CHE: 0.664 kWh). Life cycle assessment (LCA) employing IMPACT 2002 + indicated adverse environmental impacts of energy-intensive CHE reactor generating 28.4% more respiratory organics, 67.6% augmented global warming and additional 38.3% energy utilization in comparison with the novel LEIRUE reactor. Feasibility of 2-ethylhexyl acetate (2EHA), triacetin (TA), and 5 other esters were assessed as fuel additives (FAs) for FPOB (B100) and diesel-FPOB (B10) in conventional diesel engine. The optimal 1:1 v/v mix of the two best FAs (2EHA + TA) i.e., ETA was blended in 5, 7, and 10 vol% with B10 and B100 for impact assessment. Remarkably, the best 7 vol% ETA blending could successfully diminish pour point and NOx emission by 36 ± 1% and 28 ± 1% respectively for B100. The LCA also confirmed that 7 vol% ETA (for B10 and B100) blending could manage all the impact categories ascertaining environmental sustainability. Thus, ETA can find applications as a potent FA for B100 and B10 blends. 

Oxygen vacancy confining effect on photocatalytic efficiency of Pt1-black TiO2 single-atom photocatalysts for hydrogen generation and phenol decomposition
Energy and pollution are major issues worldwide, calling for advanced techniques of biofuel production and environmental remediation, such solar photocatalysis. Engineering the co-catalyst at atom level has recently been proposed to increase the photocatalytic efficiency. Here, we report a new strategy for preparing highly stable single-atom photocatalysts containing abundant isolated atomic sites. We used oxygen vacancies (Vos) to confine Pt atoms and to produce single-atom photocatalysts, labeled Pt0.254/black TiO2, that are more efficient and more stable. Results show that Pt atoms are mainly located on surface oxygen vacancies and are rather uniformly distributed on the surface of black TiO2 at a concentration of 0.254 wt %. The single-atom photocatalyst displayed excellent catalytic efficiency and stability for hydrogen generation and phenol decomposition. Overall, our findings propose an alternative method to fabricate and engineer single-atom photocatalysts., Springer Nature Switzerland AG.

One-pot conversion of levulinic acid into gamma-valerolactone over a stable Ru tungstosphosphoric acid catalyst
In this paper ruthenium exchanged tungstophosphoric acid (TPA) catalysts with different ruthenium loading (RuxTPA (x = 1,2,3)) were studied for conversion of levulinic acid (LA) into gamma-valerolactone (GVL) (a potential fuel/fuel additive). Studies were also conducted on a Ru/C catalyst as Ru/C catalysts have recently been reported to have significant promise for this reaction. Under the conditions used (130 °C, 1.0 MPa H2, 2 h in 1,4 dioxane solvent) one of the prepared catalysts achieved excellent conversion and selectivity to GVL. This catalyst also compared favorably to Ru/C catalysts that have been previously studied in terms of rate of production of GVL per gram Ru. Characterization studies showed that Ru metal surface area and extent of Lewis and Brønsted acidity were characteristics that had a significant influence on the conversion and selectivity of the RuxTPA catalysts studied. The best performing Ru3TPA catalyst was found to be highly recyclable with only a slight decrease in selectivity of GVL (from 100% to 98.3%) being observed after five cycles of testing. 

Residual Mexican biomasses for bioenergy and fine chemical production: correlation between composition and specific applications
The conversion of renewable biomasses into biofuels and chemicals represents a strategic way to reduce the use of fossil feedstock, by contributing in switching to a more sustainable society. The use of agro-industrial wastes does not subtract resources destined for food consumption. In addition, waste utilization would result in a reduction of its accumulation, with a consequent decrease of environmental impact and financial losses due to the relevant disposal. In this context, a wide variety of exploitable agricultural resources can be used to support this sustainable growth. However, the characterization represents the first step towards a targeted and proficient exploitation of the chemical and energetic potential of a residual biomass. In this work, some representative residual (Mexican) biomasses were investigated: pepper residues (Hungarian yellow and red variety), coconut shells (Cocos nucifera), flamboyant pods (Delonix regia), seeds of avocado (Persea Americana), palm (Palma de Coroco) and nance (Byrsonima crassifolia) were chemically characterized and the relevant potential applications for the synthesis of biofuels and fine chemicals were specifically evaluated. Lipids, structural carbohydrates, and lignin were specifically valorized in a proficient cascade of technologies, which aim to exploit the correspondent potential, according to the principles of biorefinery and circular economy., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Improving low-temperature properties of lignin-derived jet-fuel-ranged hydrocarbons via hydroisomerization
Fuel blending generally exhibits better low-temperature flow properties (i.e. low viscosity, low freezing point) than pure component fuel. Here, a fuel bending containing bicyclohexane and (cyclopentylmethyl)cyclohexane was synthesized directly by hydroisomerization of cyclohexylphenol to reduce the freezing point. The selectivity of (cyclopentylmethyl)cyclohexane formed by isomerization is enhanced through inhibiting the quick hydrogenation of intermediates using mixing acid catalyst and metal catalyst. Zeolite with strong Brønsted acid site and big surface area, such as HZSM-5 is better for the isomerization. Catalyzed by mixture of Pd/C and HZSM-5, the obtained fuel blending improves the freezing point from 2.6 °C to−22 °C compared with pure bicyclohexane, meanwhile keep the high density of 0.880 g/mL unchanged. The improved low-temperature property is contributed to the formation of (cyclopentylmethyl)cyclohexane. Moreover, the pathways of isomerization and its competition with hydrodeoxygenation are also investigated. Elsevier B.V.

Optimization of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cultivation with simultaneous CO2 sequestration and biofuels production in a biorefinery framework
Algal biomass is regarded as a sustainable energy feedstock for the future. Enhancement of the biomass and metabolite production of microalgae increases the economic feasibility of the biofuel production process. The present study encompasses on bioethanol production from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii through a biorefinery approach. The biomass and carbohydrate productivity of C. reinhardtii UTEX 90 and CC 2656 were enhanced by optimizing the physico-chemical parameters. The following conditions were found suitable for the improvement of biomass and metabolite content of C. reinhardtii: pH 6.5–7.0, incubation temperature 30 °C, initial acetate and ammonium chloride concentration of 1.56 g L−1 and 100–200 mg L−1, respectively. Under the optimized operational condition biomass and carbohydrate productivity of C. reinhardtii UTEX 90 and CC 2656 were 512 mg L−1 d−1 &amp; 266.24 mg L−1 d−1 and 364 mg L−1 d −1 &amp; 163.80 mg L−1 d−1, respectively. The amount of CO2 sequestered during the cultivation process by UTEX 90 and CC 2656 were 113 mg L−1 d−1 and 74.95 mg L−1 d−1, respectively. The depigmented and defatted carbohydrate rich biomass was considered as raw material for bioethanol production. The bioethanol yield range was 90–94% of the theoretical yield using Saccharomyces cerevisiae INVSC-1 in a double jacket reactor. To improve the viability of the process, the spent media after ethanol fermentation was subsequently used for methane production using mixed microbial consortium. The energy recovery from the process was 40.39% and 39.7% for UTEX 90 and CC 2656, respectively when C. reinhardtii biomass was used as substrate for biofuel production. The present investigation concedes with the potentiality of algae as a favourable 3rd generation feedstock to address the existing challenges of clean energy production with concomitant CO2 sequestration. Elsevier B.V.

Titanium silicalite-1 supported bimetallic catalysts for selective hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to biofuel 2, 5-dimethylfuran
Production of biofuels from biomass resources has received wide attention because of the current energy crisis. Recently, significant interest has been directed towards the selective hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to produce biofuel 2, 5-dimethylfuran (DMF). In this study, non-noble Ni–Cu catalysts with various Ni/Cu ratios, supported on titanium silicalite-1 (TS-1), were prepared through a solid-phase grinding method and used to catalyze the hydrogenolysis of HMF to DMF under a hydrogen atmosphere. The structure and surface morphology of the catalysts were characterized by X-ray diffraction, Fourier-transform infrared, thermogravimetry, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption of ammonia, scanning electron microscopy, and N2 adsorption-desorption techniques. Under the optimized reaction conditions, the conversion of HMF and the selectivity for DMF over a 40%Ni–5%Cu/TS-1 catalyst could reach 100.0% and 97.3%, respectively. Importantly, because the strong interaction of the Ni–Cu alloy structure prevents further reaction of the furan ring, almost no by-products are produced. The metal sites of Ni and Cu and the acid sites of TS-1 combine to provide a synergistic effect, which is beneficial to the hydrogenolysis of HMF. In addition, reusability experiments showed that the catalyst maintained good activity and stability.

Looking into More Eyes Combining in Situ Spectroscopy in Catalytic Biofuel Upgradation with Composition-Graded Ag-Co Core-Shell Nanoalloys
γ-Valerolactone (GVL), which can be generated from levulinic acid (LA), has attained a humongous amount of interest due to its implantation in various fields, which includes fuels and fuel additives. Herein, for the first time, we have sequentially synthesized silver-cobalt core-shell nanoalloy-based catalysts through a simple wet impregnation method for selective conversion of LA to GVL. The highest catalytic proficiency (97.3 LA conversion with 100% GVL selectivity) had been achieved over a composition-graded optimized catalyst, named 5Ag-15Co, under comparatively moderate reaction conditions (150 °C, 1 MPa H2 pressure). The catalyst structure-activity relationship has been established through an extensive range of in situ spectroscopic characterizations, which included in situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), in situ CO-diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) spectroscopy, and in situ attenuated total reflection-inferred (ATR-IR) spectroscopy. The extraordinary catalytic activity could be attributed to the modulation of electronic properties, which is mainly due to the synergistic interaction in the core-shell alloy system, as confirmed from in situ XPS studies. The presence of the highest amount of metallic cobalt in the 5Ag-15Co catalyst, which was evidenced by both in situ XPS and in situ CO-DRIFT, could assist the hydrogenation step in hydrodeoxygenation of LA to GVL. This finding also was emphasized by H2 chemisorption analysis, which revealed the presence of the highest active metal surface area in the 5Ag-15Co catalyst. In situ ATR-IR has elucidated that moderate interaction, which was generated between the catalyst and LA, has enhanced the rate of reaction. This finding also has been emphasized by the results obtained from NH3-TPD analysis, which revealed that the presence of high surface density of Lewis/weak acidic sites facilitated the hydrogenation step in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) reaction. The detailed kinetic analysis revealed that the 5Ag-15Co catalyst had the lowest activation energy (41.34 kJ) among its counterparts, which accelerated the reaction rate. American Chemical Society.

Biodiesel production using low cost material as high effective catalyst in a microreactor
Given the scarceness of fossil fuels and high volume of pollution caused through the consumption of these fuels, many efforts are being made to produce alternative fuels. Biodiesel is one of the alternatives to diesel fuels. The main problem with biodiesel production is higher operation costs, as compared with diesel fuels. In this study, waste cooking oil and cow bone as the catalyst were used to reduce feed costs as much as possible. Moreover, a microreactor was utilized to reduce the residence time to 1 min. Using Box-Behnken design method, the effect of different variables including catalyst concentration (calcined cow bone), oil to methanol volume ratio, residence time, and reaction temperature on the purity of produced biodiesel were examined. The results showed that when using a catalyst concentration of 8.5 wt %, an oil to methanol volume ratio of 2.25 vol: vol, a residence time of 60 s, and a temperature of 63.1 °C, the maximum purity of biodiesel was 99.24%. 

Enhanced biodiesel production from oleic acid using TiO2-decorated magnetic ZIF-8 nanocomposite catalyst and its utilization for used frying oil conversion to valuable product
In this study, a new recyclable TiO2-decorated magnetic ZIF-8 (Fe3O4@ZIF-8/TiO2) nanocomposite catalyst was first synthesized and its structural and morphological properties were characterized through different techniques such as XRD, FT-IR, TEM, EDX, TPD, and VSM. Then, biodiesel was produced using the Fe3O4@ZIF-8/TiO2 catalyst through the esterification of oleic acid in the presence of ethanol. Response surface methodology (RSM) was also employed to achieve the optimum experimental operating variables affecting the yield of biodiesel production. Significant variables like the amount of catalyst, the molar ratio of alcohol to fatty acid, reaction time, and temperature were optimized through RSM to achieve the highest yield of biodeisel production. The results indicated that the highest biodiesel yield is obtained at the reaction temperature of 50 °C, the reaction time of 62.5 min, the alcohol to oleic acid molar ratio 30:1, and 0.2 g (6 %wt) amount of catalyst. In this condition, the highest yield of biodiesel production was found 80% and 93% using ethanol and methanol, respectively; around 40% higher than pristine TiO2 and magnetic ZIF-8. Subsequently, the biodiesel production in optimum conditions was evaluated from frying oil by using the as-prepared catalyst. The result from 1H NMR and GC–MS analyses confirmed the efficient conversion of frying oil wastes to valuable biofuel product. 

Catalytic conversion of corncob biomass into bioethanol
Biofuel is an eco-friendly alternative source for the depleting fossil fuel resources. The catalytic conversion of biomass into biofuel is an emerging technique in biofuel production. In this study, iron oxide nanoparticles were synthesized from Spinacia oleracea by green synthesis method and subsequently sulfonated to produce active nanocatalyst material. The catalyst obtained has high acid activity and can be readily recovered by an external magnetic field. Corncob waste was crushed to powder form and is subjected to pretreatment by ultrasonication. The compositional analysis was carried out using the Soxhlet extraction method to estimate the cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin contents. The functional group of biomass and morphology changes were studied by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis. The active nanocatalyst was tested for the hydrolysis of corncob into sugar. The effects of catalyst dosage and temperature on sugar yield were studied. The reducing sugar yield was measured using the dinitrosalicylic acid test. The production of bioethanol from sugar hydrolysate was carried out using a simultaneous saccharification route. A reference sample and the sample with a high yield of reducing sugar were taken into the fermentation process, which was done using Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast; this yeast was initially cultured in the YPD medium, and the grown yeast was used in the fermentation process for the production of bioethanol, whose yield was confirmed using GC analysis. John Wiley & Sons Ltd

Environmental impact assessment of bio-hydrogenated diesel from hydrogen and co-product of palm oil industry
Bio-hydrogenated diesel (BHD) is a second generation biofuel that can be produced from vegetable oil and hydrogen via hydroprocessing. BHD is considered as one of alternative and renewable energy. This work presents evaluation of environmental impacts of BHD produced from palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) compared to fatty acid methyl ester (FAME). Greenhouse gas emission, energy consumption, and overall environmental impacts are assessed. System boundary is from palm oil cultivation to BHD production. The functional unit is defined as 1 kg of fuel produced at the plant. The results indicate that energy consumption of BHD-PFAD is 1.18 times higher than that of BHD-FAME, while giving GHG emission 13.56 times lower than that of BHD-FAME. The results of overall environmental impacts indicated that BHD-PFAD was 3.58 greater than that of BHD-FAME. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Evaluation of algae-based biodiesel production topologies via inherent safety index (Isi)
Increasing energy needs have led to soaring fossil fuel consumption, which has caused several environmental problems. These environmental aspects along with the energy demand have motivated the search for new energy systems. In this context, biofuels such as biodiesel have been developing into a substitute for conventional fuels. Microalgae are considered a promising option for biodiesel production due to their high lipid content. Therefore, it is important to analyze the technical aspects of the biodiesel production system. In this work, the inherent safety analysis of three emerging topologies for biodiesel production from microalgae was performed using the inherent safety index (ISI) methodology. Selected topologies include biodiesel production via lipid extraction and transesterification, in-situ transesterification, and hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL). The results revealed that the processes are inherently unsafe achieving total inherent safety index scores of 30, 29, and 36. The main risks in the cases were associated with the chemical safety index. Operating conditions represented no risk for topologies 1 and 2, while for topology 3 pressure and temperature were identified as critical variables. In general, topology 2 showed better performance from a safety perspective. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Valorisation of low fatty acid content waste cooking oil into biodiesel through transesterification using a basic heterogeneous calcium-based catalyst
This study presents the valorisation of waste cooking oil (WCO) and marble waste powder (MW) in the synthesis of biodiesel using ultrasonication. The novelty of this study is the development of environmental friendly catalysts from MW for biodiesel synthesis. Performance of five different catalysts such as MW, calcined marble waste powder (MWC), marble waste powder pretreated with acid followed by calcination (MWAC), marble waste powder precalcined followed by acid treatment and calcination (MWCAC) and commercially available CaO were utilized in the synthesis of biodiesel. Characterization of the catalysts was performed using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) with Energy Dispersive X-Ray Analysis (EDX) and Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area analyser. The Box-Behnken method was used to design the sets of experiments followed by the optimization of parameters such as oil to alcohol molar ratio, catalyst concentration and temperature using the response surface methodology (RSM). Thereafter biodiesel synthesis was carried out at the optimized conditions in presence of all catalysts along with ultrasonication. Maximum yield of 95.45 and 98.81% was obtained using MWCAC and CaO in 180 min of reaction time at the optimized conditions of oil to alcohol molar ratio of 1:15.9, catalyst concentration of 6.8 wt% of oil and reaction temperature of 64.8 °C. Biodiesel synthesis carried out using conventional stirring method at the optimum conditions provided a maximum yield of 51.92% only in 180 min of reaction time. The present results delivers that ultrasonication reduced the energy requirement by 1.5 folds in biodiesel production as compared to conventional method. 

Sustainable approach for the treatment of poultry manure and starchy wastewater by integrating dark fermentation and microalgal cultivation
Dwindling fossil fuels, and the rise in energy demand have urged us to explore alternative renewable energy forms. An integrated process of dark fermentation and microalgal cultivation to deliver biofuels are gaining momentum in recent times. In this study, in the first stage, the starchy wastewater (SWW) with poultry manure (PM) was treated to produce a maximum hydrogen yield of 4.11 mol H2/Kg COD reduced to 5.03 mol H2/Kg COD reduced. The reutilization of soluble spent wash for the cultivation of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii yielded a biomass concentration of 1.45–1.02 g/L. The potentiality of algae to produce biodiesel was checked effectively, and it was reported that a biodiesel of 90.34 g/Kg Algal Biomass to 119.61 g/Kg Algal was yielded. The integration of the process enhanced the overall energy with an efficient removal of organic content. In conclusion, the valorisation of PM with SWW through dark fermentation and microalgal cultivation will open avenues to generate sustainable bioenergy forms. Graphic abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Springer Japan KK, part of Springer Nature.

Enhancement of biodiesel yield and characteristics through in-situ solvo-thermal co-transesterification of wet microalgae with spent coffee grounds
This study evaluated in-situ co-transesterification of wet spent coffee ground (SCG)/microalgae mixture for enhanced biodiesel production. SCG and microalgae showed lipid contents of 16.0 and 23.6 wt%, respectively. A total of 27 transesterification runs were performed using wet SCG:algae (1:1, w/w) at different temperatures, times, and solvent ratios. Box-Behnken quadratic model suggested 198 °C, 6 mL solvent g−1 biomass, and reaction time of 132 min as the optimum conditions for maximum biodiesel yield. At different SCG/microalgae blend ratios, pure microalgae showed the highest biodiesel yield of 20.15 wt%. Increase of SCG ratio resulted in significant reduction in the biodiesel yield, reaching the lowest value of 11.2 wt% using pure SCG. On the other hand, SCG showed better biodiesel characteristics than microalgae regarding iodine value, cetane number, and oxidation stability. The present results confirmed that SCG-algae blend results in dual effect of enhancing biodiesel yield and quality, comparing to the individual transesterification. 

Conversion of waste frying oil into biodiesel using recoverable nanocatalyst based on magnetic graphene oxide supported ternary mixed metal oxide nanoparticles
The magnetic graphene oxide (GO) supported with heterogeneous ternary mixed metal oxide (MMO) was used as nanocatalyst to enhance the conversion of waste frying oil (WFO) triglycerides to biodiesel via esterification process. In this regard, acidic MGO was modified with three basic metal cations of cerium, zirconium, and strontium oxides to produce heterogeneous MGO@MMO nanocatalyst. The nanocatalyst was characterized by FESEM, TEM, EDX and FTIR. The influence of different parameters such as catalyst material ratio, methanol to oil ratio, contact time, and reaction temperature was studied. Based on the results of effecting parameters, the MGO@MMO nanocatalyst converted WFO to biodiesel with a yield 94%, a reaction time of 90 min, methanol to oil ratio (8:1), and a temperature of 60 °C. Esterification mechanism indicated the MGO@MMO nanocatalyst having both binary Brønsted acid–base sites that increased the conversion yields as compared to MGO and MMO at low temperatures. 

External Solvent-Free Catalytic Hydrodeoxygenation of Softwood Lignin to Aromatics over Carbon–ZrO2 Supported Ni/MoS2 Catalysts
This work aims to convert black liquor- derived softwood lignin into industrially vital aromatic compounds by catalytic hydrodeoxygenation (HDO), without the use of external solvent. Lignin melts serve as the solvent itself under HDO conditions. Activated carbon supported NiMoS2 catalysts are prepared by a water/oil micro–emulsion method and the required support acidity is tailored by addition of ZrO2 (10–50%) to the support. The maximum deoxygenation of 82.2% is observed along with a monomer yield of 69.1% in 3 h reaction time, when 10% ZrO2 is added to the carbon support. The yield of monomers is distributed in the following order: alkyl phenolics (23.1%) &gt; guaiacolics (18.1%) &gt; aromatic hydrocarbons (17.5%) &gt; alkanes (10.5%). Interestingly, aromatic hydrocarbons yield increases with increase in time. The catalyst is found to be stable, without any significant loss in the activity and product selectivity when tested for up to five reaction cycles. Wiley-VCH GmbH

Catalytic hydrogenation and etherification of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural into 2-(alkoxymethyl)-5-methylfuran and 2,5-bis(alkoxymethyl)furan as potential biofuel additives
In this study, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) was converted into several biofuel additives such as alkoxymethylfurans (AMFs) and 2,5-bis(alkoxymethyl)furans (BAMFs) through two-step sequential hydrogenation and etherification reactions. In the first step, zinc‑iron magnetic nanocatalyst supported on activated carbon (ZnO-Fe3O4/AC) was prepared for the selective hydrogenation of HMF into BHMF and 5-MFA via Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley (MPV) reaction in three different hydrogen donor alcohols (ethanol, 1-propanol, and 1-butanol). The important physical properties of the catalyst such as crystallinity, chemical composition, morphology, reduction behavior, and surface area were studied by using several analytical techniques. The effect of hydrogenation parameters such as catalyst concentration, temperature, and time on the selectivity of (BHMF and 5-MFA), and HMF conversion were studied. The best hydrogenation results were obtained with 0.2 mmole HMF and 100 mg of catalyst at 200 °C for 12 h. In the second step, three commercial Brønsted acid catalysts were used to convert the hydrogenated products into alkoxymethylfurans (AMFs) and 2,5-bis(alkoxymethyl)furans (BAMFs). At the optimum etherification conditions (65 °C and 10 h), a spectrum of mono-, di-, and tri- ether compounds were obtained. The hydrogenation catalyst (ZnO-Fe3O4/AC) was recycled and used for five times without a remarkable reduction in its catalytic activity. Elsevier B.V.

Microalgae in a global world: New solutions for old problems?
The human population blast has brought several problems related with the overconsumption of a wide range of feedstocks and natural resources conducting to their risk of depletion. The consumption of fossil fuels is an example, with increasing levels of exploitation and negative impacts caused by their use. Anthropogenic activities have triggered the over accumulation of many hazardous substances and wastes which are regarded to be detrimental to life in the Earth and to the various planet ecosystems. There is an urgent need to restore natural resources and unwanted residues and wastes to levels prior the demographic explosion. Microalgal biotechnology appears to be pivotal to achieve this goal in a near future to come. This review presents the current resource problems affecting the Earth and how microalgae are expected to be an important part of the solution, discussing how the production of renewable energy from microalgae can help in an integrated way to mitigate different environmental problems. Microalgae are able to convert wastewaters, CO2 and organic residues in marketable biomass for different uses, including biofuels, converting waste in value. An inventory of current microalgal-based biorefineries in operation as well as a directory of companies, products and applications are also presented. 

Efficient production and optimization of biodiesel from kapok (Ceiba pentandra) oil by lipase transesterification process: Addressing positive environmental impact
Ceiba pentandra, non-edible oil (acid value of 21 mg KOH/g estimated using ASTM D664 methodology) is employed as a source for producing biodiesel using lipase immobilized on mesoporous material as a catalyst. Optimum conditions for maximum yield (96.4%) were the temperature of 33 °C, methanol to oil molar ratio of about 13.3:1 with a water content of 14.5%. From the reusability studies, it can be observed that greater than 85% conversion could be obtained up to 10 cycles, thereby proving the significant efficacy of the catalyst. Density, flash point, cloud point, calorific value, and cetane number of the produced biodiesels were 885 kg/m3, 152 °C, −3 °C, 38.44 kJ/kg and 57.2, respectively meeting the ASTM standards specified for biodiesel. The performance and emissions characteristics of 20% biodiesel (CIB20) and petroleum diesel were studied in a VCR under varying speeds in a full load condition. Blended biofuel showed a 13% lower mean brake power (BP) and 25% higher mean specific fuel consumption (SFC) compared to diesel fuel. Though NOx emission of the blended diesel was 31% higher than that of petroleum diesel, Hydrocarbon, CO2, and CO emissions were 8.4%, 13.7%, and 5.08% lower than that of diesel fuel, respectively. 

Biodiesel production from novel non-edible caper (Capparis spinosa L.) seeds oil employing Cu–Ni doped ZrO2 catalyst
The rapid depletion of fossil fuel resources and climatic changes has triggered the researchers' attention to find an alternative and renewable energy source. Thus, biodiesel has been recognized as a potential alternative to petrodiesel for its biodegradability, non-toxicity, and environment-friendly attributes. In this study, an efficient and recyclable Cu–Ni doped ZrO2 catalyst was synthesized and used to produce biodiesel from a novel non-edible caper (Capparis spinosa L.) seed oil. The synthesized catalyst was characterized by x-ray diffraction, fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and energy dispersive x-ray analysis. The catalyst was reused in four consecutive transesterification reactions without losing any significant catalytic efficiency. Transesterification reaction conditions were optimized via response surface methodology based on Box-Behnken design for predicting optimum biodiesel yields by drawing 3D surface plots. Maximum biodiesel yield of 90.2% was obtained under optimal operating conditions of 1:6 M ratio of oil to methanol, reaction temperature of 70 °C, reaction time of 1.5 h, and 2.5% catalyst loading. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, gas chromatography–mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance (1H and 13C) analysis confirmed the high quality of biodiesel produced from non-edible caper (Capparis spinosa L.) seed oil. The fuel properties of the produced biodiesel were also found, such as kinematic viscosity (4.17 cS T), density (0.8312 kg/L), flash point (72 °C), acid no (0.21 mgKOH/g) and sulphur content (0.00042 wt%). These properties were matched and are in close agreement with the International Biodiesel Standards of European Union (EU-14214), China GB/T 20,828 (2007), and American (ASTM6751). Thus, non-edible Capparis spinosa L. seed oil and Cu–Ni doped ZrO2 catalyst appeared to be highly active, stable, and cheap candidates to boost the future biodiesel industry. 

Magnetized ZIF-8 impregnated with sodium hydroxide as a heterogeneous catalyst for high-quality biodiesel production
A magnetized zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF-8) impregnated with sodium hydroxide catalyst has been synthesized and tested as a new catalyst for biodiesel production. The new catalyst was investigated for the ethanolysis of vegetable oil to produce biodiesel. The operating conditions of the biodiesel production were optimized using the 2n design method followed by a reduced number of experimental runs. A 70% conversion of oil in the ethanolysis reaction was achieved using the new catalyst. The optimized operating conditions were found to be alcohol to oil molar ratio of 21:1, catalyst loading of 1% wt., a reaction time of 90 min, and temperature of 75 °C. Ethanolysis reaction was found to obey the pseudo-second-order kinetic model. In addition, the Arrhenius pre-exponential constant and activation energy were calculated to be 1.12 × 1010 L mol−1.min−1 and 77.27 kJ/mol, respectively. The physical properties of the product biodiesel matched the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) ranges. Additionally, the product biodiesel achieved a Cetane number of 75, which is 15% higher than the upper range of the ASTM. 

A Techno-economic Analysis for Integrating an Electrochemical Reactor into a Lignocellulosic Biorefinery for Production of Industrial Chemicals and Hydrogen
In this study, we present a techno-economic analysis for integrating an electrochemical reactor into a lignocellulosic biorefinery for the purpose of converting biorefinery lignin to higher-value industrial chemicals with co-generation of hydrogen. We consider how the electrochemical reactor impacts the manufacturing costs for producing biofuel and determine a break-even value for the lignin oxidation product stream, which is the minimum lignin conversion product stream value that renders the cost to produce biofuel the same as in the typical biorefinery concept. We conclude that at low extents of lignin conversion, the break-even product stream value is likely too high for the process to be feasible. However, at higher extents of lignin conversion, the break-even product stream value may be between $1.00 and $2.00/kg, depending on capital cost and other manufacturing costs like depreciation. Potential markets for the biomass conversion products include resin manufacturing, where the products would compete with petroleum-derived resin precursors., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Implication, visualization, and characterization through scanning electron microscopy as a tool to identify nonedible oil seeds
Second-generation biofuels prove to be a distinctive and renewable source of sustainable energy and cleaner environment. The current study focuses on the exploration and identification of four nonedible sources, that is, Brassica oleracea L., Carthamus oxyacantha M.Bieb., Carthamus tinctorius L., and Beaumontia grandiflora Wall., utilizing light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for studying the detailed micromorphological features of these seeds. LM revealed that size ranges from 3 to 20 mm. furthermore, a great variety of color is observed from pitch black to greenish gray and yellowish white to off white. Seeds ultrastructure study with the help of SEM revealed a great variety in shape, size, color, sculpturing and periclinal wall shape, and so on. Followed by the production of fatty acid methyl esters from a novel source, that is, seeds oil of Brassica oleracea L. (seed oil content 42.20%, FFA content 0.329 mg KOH/g) using triple metal impregnated montmorillonite clay catalyst (Cu-Mg-Zn-Mmt). Catalyst was characterized using SEM–EDX, FT-IR. Maximum yield of Brassica oleracea L. biodiesel (87%) was obtained at the conditions; 1:9 of oil to methanol ratio, 0.5 g of catalyst, 5 hr reaction time, and 90°C of temperature. Synthesized biodiesel was characterized by FT-IR, GC–MS, and NMR. Fuel properties of the Brassica oleracea L. FAMES were determined and found in accordance with ASTM standards. Wiley Periodicals LLC.

Highly efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation of furfural over defect-rich amphoteric ZrO2with abundant surface acid-base sites
Currently, the catalytic transformation and utilization of biomass-derived compounds are of great importance to the alleviation of environmental problems and sustainable development. Among them, furfural alcohol derived from biomass resources has been found to be one of the most prospective biomass platforms for high-value chemicals and biofuels. Herein, high-surface-area ZrO2 with abundant oxygen defects and surface acid-base sites was synthesized and used as a heterogeneous catalyst for the catalytic transfer hydrogenation of furfural into furfural alcohol using alcohol as a hydrogen donor. The as-synthesized ZrO2 exhibited excellent catalytic performance with 98.2% FA conversion and 97.1% FOL selectivity, even comparable with that of a homogeneous Lewis acid catalyst. A series of characterization studies and experimental results revealed that acid sites on the surface of ZrO2 could adsorb and activate the CO bond in furfural and base sites could facilitate the formation of alkoxide species. The synergistic effect of surface acid-base sites affords a harmonious environment for the reaction, which is crucial for catalytic transfer hydrogenation of furfural with high efficiency. Furthermore, the as-prepared ZrO2 catalyst also exhibited a potential application for the efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation of a series of biomass-derived carbonyl compounds. This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Efficient hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural using a synergistically bimetallic Ru-Ir/C catalyst
Activated charcoal-dispersed Ru-Ir alloy nanoparticles (ca.2.2 nm) are a selective and reusable hydrogenation catalyst for the conversion of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to valuable liquid biofuel. A 99% yield to 2,5-dimethylfuran is achieved at only 120 °C. An acceleration in the reduction of substrate and intermediates is observed due to the synergistic effect between the Ru and Ir species. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021.

Simultaneous production of aromatics-rich bio-oil and carbon nanomaterials from catalytic co-pyrolysis of biomass/plastic wastes and in-line catalytic upgrading of pyrolysis gas
An integrated process that includes catalytic co-pyrolysis of biomass/plastic wastes and in-line catalytic upgrading of pyrolysis gas were conducted to simultaneously produce aromatics-rich bio-oil and carbon nanotubes (CNTs). The influences of feedstocks blending ratio on the characteristics of bio-oil and CNTs were established. The reaction mechanism of carbon deposition during the system was also probed. The results showed that co-feeding plastic to biomass siginificantly enhanced the selectivity of monoaromatics (benzene, toluene, and xylene) from 5.6% for pure biomass to the maximum yield of 44.4% for 75.0% plastic ratio, and decreased naphthalene and its derivates from 85.9 to 41.7% correspondingly. The most synergistic effect on BTX selectivity occurred at 25% of plastic ratio. The multi-walled CNTs were successfully synethsized on Ni catalyst by utilizing prolysis gas as feedstocks. For pure biomass, the least CNTs yield with ultrafine diameters of 3.9–8.5 nm was generated via disproportionation reaction of CO which was derived from decarboxylation and decarbonylation of oxygenates on the ZSM-5 acid sites. With the rise of plastic ratio, sufficient hydrocarbons were produced for CNTs growth, endowing CNTs with long and straight tube walls, along with uniform diameters (~16 nm). The CNTs yield increased as high as 139 mg/g-cata. In addition, the decreased CO2 inhibited dry reforming with C1-C4 hydrocarbons and deposited carbon, avoiding excessive etching of CNTs. Thereby, high-purity CNTs with less defects were fabricated when plastic ratio was beyond 50% in the feedstock. The strategy is expected to improve the sustainability and economic viability of biomass pyrolysis. 

A technical review of bioenergy and resource recovery from municipal solid waste
Population growth, rapid urbanization, industrialization and economic development have led to the magnified municipal solid waste generation at an alarming rate on a global scale. Municipal solid waste seems to be an economically viable and attractive resource to produce green fuels through different waste-to-energy conversion routes. This paper reviews the different waste-to-energy technologies as well as thermochemical and biological conversion technologies for the valorization of municipal solid waste and diversion for recycling. The key waste-to-energy technologies discussed in this review include conventional thermal incineration and the modern hydrothermal incineration. The thermochemical treatments (e.g. pyrolysis, liquefaction and gasification) and biological treatments (e.g. anaerobic digestion and composting) are also elaborated for the transformation of solid wastes to biofuel products. The current status of municipal solid waste management for effective disposal and diversion along with the opportunities and challenges has been comprehensively reviewed. The merits and technical challenges of the waste-to-energy technologies are systematically discussed to promote the diversion of solid wastes from landfill disposal to biorefineries. Elsevier B.V.

Optimizing Microalgal Biomass Feedstock Selection for Nanocatalytic Conversion Into Biofuel Clean Energy, Using Fuzzy Multi-Criteria Decision Making Processes
Biofuel production from microalgae non-food feedstock is a challenge for strengthening Green energy nowadays. Reviewing the current technology, there is still reluctance in investing towards the production of new algal strains that yield more oil and maximize capital gains. In the current work, the microalgal feedstock selection problem is investigated for increased lipid production and nano-catalytic conversion into clean biofuel. For that purpose, a variety of Fuzzy Multi-Criteria Decision Making processes and a multitude of Optimization criteria spanning to technological, environmental, economic, and social aspects are used. The strains selected for the analysis are Chlorella sp., Schizochytrium sp., Spirulina sp., and Nannochloropsis sp. The methods applied are fuzzy analytic hierarchy process, FTOPSIS (fuzzy technique for the order of preference to the ideal solution), and FCM (fuzzy cognitive mapping). Pairwise comparison matrices were calculated using data from extensive literature review. All aforementioned fuzzy logic methodologies are proven superior to their numeric equivalent under uncertain factors that affect the decision making, such as cost, policy implications, and also geographical and seasonal variation. A major finding is that the most dominant factor in the strain selection is the high lipid content. Moreover, the results indicate that the Chlorella Vulgaris microalgae is ranked as the best choice by the FTOPSIS method followed by the Nannochloropsis strain, and Spirulina Platensis was found to be the last in performance. The best and worst case scenario run with FCM experimentally verify this choice indicating that Chlorella Vulgaris follows this trend of selection mostly with the technological and the economic criteria for both the sigmoid and the hyperbolic tangent deep-learning functions used. Copyright Kokkinos, Karayannis and Moustakas.

Effect of pd precursor salts on the chemical state, particle size, and performance of activated carbon-supported pd catalysts for the selective hydrogenation of palm biodiesel
To improve the oxidative stability of biodiesel fuel (BDF), the polyunsaturated fatty acid methyl esters (poly-FAME) presented in commercial palm oil-derived biodiesel fuel (palm-BDF) were selectively hydrogenated to monounsaturated fatty acid methyl esters (mono-FAME) under a mild condition (80 °C, 0.5 MPa) using activated carbon (AC)-supported Pd catalysts with a Pd loading of 1 wt.%. The partially hydrotreated palm-BDF (denoted as H-FAME) which has low poly-FAME components is a new type of BDF with enhanced quality for use in high blends. In this study, we reported that the chemical states and particle sizes of Pd in the prepared Pd/AC catalysts were significantly influenced by the Pd precursors, Pd(NO3)2 and Pd(NH3)4Cl2, and thus varied their hydrogenation activity and product selectivity. The 1%Pd/AC (nit) catalyst, prepared using Pd(NO3)2, presented high performance for selective hydrogenation of poly-FAME into mono-FAME with high oxidation stability, owning to its large Pd particles (8.4 nm). Conversely, the 1%Pd/AC (amc) cata-lyst, prepared using Pd(NH3)4Cl2, contained small Pd particles (2.7 nm) with a little Cl residues, which could be completely removed by washing with an aqueous solution of 0.1 M NH4OH. The small Pd particles gave increased selectivity toward unwanted-FAME components, particularly the saturated fatty acid methyl esters during the hydrogenation of poly-FAME. This selectivity is un-profitable for improving the biodiesel quality. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Photocatalytic reforming of aqueous phase obtained from liquefaction of household mixed waste biomass for renewable bio-hydrogen production
In this study, hydrothermal liquefaction of household waste was performed to produce valuable liquid hydrocarbons with aqueous phase as by-product. Photocatalytic reforming of aqueous phase was carried out for hydrogen production. Liquefaction of 15 g waste at temperature of 320 °C and solvent to biomass ratio of 13.33 mL/g produced bio-oil of 32.4 wt% and hydrogen 21 wt% in gas product. Hydrogen production from aqueous phase was studied in presence of various concentrations of activated carbon doped Fe/TiO2 catalyst (0.2–1 wt%). Hydrogen yield was 32 wt% when 0.6 wt% of catalyst was used to reform aqueous phase. To ease of operation in economical manner the reusability study of the catalyst was evaluated and it was found to be active for three consecutive cycles. As outcome of this study, household waste can serve for a whooping amount of hydrogen (53 wt%) production via liquefaction and photocatalytic reforming process. 

Highly active organosulfonic aryl-silica nanoparticles as efficient catalysts for biomass derived biodiesel and fuel additives
Post-grafting methodologies were used to prepare aryl-organosulfonic acid functionalized silica nanoparticles (SO3H-aryl-SiO2NPs) as highly active heterogeneous acid catalysts for catalytic esterification of free fatty acids (FFA) and levulinic acid (LA), and aldol condensation of furfural with 3-methylfuran, well known renewable feedstocks for biodiesel and fuel additives production. The chemical and structural characterization of the SO3H-aryl-SiO2NPs confirmed the success of the functionalization. Complete conversion for all FFA was observed using SO3H-aryl-SiO2NPs after 2 h of reaction. SiO2NPs_CSPTMS showed to be the most active and stable catalyst with no significant loss of activity in the first 5 cycles. In the LA esterification in the presence of an alcohol, complete conversion and selectivity and high reusability were observed (e.g., 83.2% yield after 10 cycles in the presence of 1-propanol, SiO2NPs10_CSPTMS, at 120 °C and 2h reaction). Finally, aldol condensation of furfural and 3-methylfuran had been performed using SiO2NPs_CSPTMS catalysts with almost 100% yield after 10 min at 65 °C, high stability and reusability for 7 catalytic cycles. In general, the prepared SO3H-aryl-SiO2NPs have demonstrated promising catalytic performance for transformation of biomass-derived feedstocks into biodiesel and fuel additives. 

A ranking scheme for biodiesel underpinned by critical physicochemical properties
Diminishing oil reserve, escalating energy dependence, and the environmental impact of fossil fuel utilization has led to research on renewable energy resources with a cleaner carbon footprint. Biofuel, especially biodiesel, has become a feasible substitute for petroleum diesel as it can be directly used in existing transport infrastructure without significant alteration. This paper starts by discussing some critical physicochemical properties and their effect on engine performance and emission. The research then proposes a ranking scheme to select the most suitable biodiesel based on six vital physicochemical properties: density, viscosity, heating value, flash point, cetane number and oxidation stability. The solution developed is independent of supervision, contrary to popular learning algorithms and can operate on the only intelligence whether an attribute is favourable by its higher/lower values. The novelty of the work consists in ensuring that the rarer properties pick up the greater weights and in establishing a simple ranker based on descriptive statistics. This scheme first generates transactions against each biodiesel which helps in association rule mining, which is later used to score/rank the biodiesels. The three phases and their subordinate sub-steps have been carried out using the platforms: Python, R and Tableau, respectively. The study endorses Brassica juncea, Cardoon (Cynara cardunculu), and poppyseed oil as the most desirable biodiesel feedstocks. On the other hand, cedar, castor and hiptage were ranked as least desirable in the list of 71 feedstocks based on the proposed ranking scheme. The proposed ranking scheme will help decision-makers such to analyze and obtain tailored biodiesel feedstock for their purposes. 

Hydroconversion of Kraft lignin for biofuels production using bifunctional rhenium-molybdenum supported zeolitic imidazolate framework nanocatalyst
Non-noble bimetallic nanoparticles anchored on Zeolitic Imidazolate Frameworks, bifunctional ReMo@ZNB catalyst, has been demonstrated to promote Kraft lignin depolymerization. In this study, the catalytic activities under different heat treatment conditions are ranked as follows: ReMo@ZNB-700 (Air) &gt; ReMo@ZNB-500 (Air) &gt; ReMo@ZNB-700 (N2). Particularly, bimetallic ReMo nanocatalyst with Re/Mo atomic ratio of 1/3 shows superior performance. Excellent yields of Ethyl acetate soluble products (92.18%) and Petroleum ether extracted biofuels (78%) are obtained at 300℃ and 24 h, and the calorific value is 32.33 MJ/kg. The ReMo@ZNB catalyst exhibits superior recyclability and regeneration after cycle experiment. Structural characterization results reveal that the incorporation of ReMo can engender the transformation of lattice morphology, the strength of hydrogenation and acid adsorption. The possible mechanism is based on the synergism of adsorption coupling and hydrogenation over ReMo@ZNB catalyst. The synergic action initiates potential perspectives for improving lignin hydroconversion. 

Production of high quality biodiesel from novel non-edible Raphnus raphanistrum L. seed oil using copper modified montmorillonite clay catalyst
This study focused on producing high quality and yield of biodiesel from novel non-edible seed oil of abundantly available wild Raphnus raphanistrum L. using an efficient, recyclable and eco-friendly copper modified montmorillonite (MMT) clay catalyst. The maximum biodiesel yield of 83% was obtained by base catalyzed transesterification process under optimum operating conditions of methanol to oil ratio of 15:1, reaction temperature of 150 °C, reaction time of 5 h and catalyst loading of 3.5%. The synthesized catalyst and biodiesel were characterized for their structural features and chemical compositions using various state-of-the-art techniques, including x-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (1H, 13C) and gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy. The fuel properties of the biodiesel were estimated including kinematic viscosity (4.36 cSt), density (0.8312 kg/L), flash point (72 °C), acid value (0.172 mgKOH/g) and sulphur content (0.0002 wt.%). These properties were compared and found in good agreement with the International Biodiesel Standards of American (ASTM-951, 6751), European Committee (EN-14214) and China GB/T 20828 (2007). The catalyst was re-used in five consecutive transesterification reactions without losing much catalytic efficiency. Overall, non-edible Raphnus raphanistrum L. seed oil and Cu doped MMT clay catalyst appeared to be highly active, stable, and cheap contenders for future biofuel industry. However, detailed life cycle assessment (LCA) studies of Raphnus raphanistrum L. seed oil biodiesel are highly recommended to assess the technical, ecological, social and economic challenges. Elsevier Inc.

Effect of reaction temperature on the conversion of algal biomass to bio-oil and biochar through pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction
Thermochemical methods namely pyrolysis, gasification/hydrothermal gasification, combustion, hydrothermal liquefaction and hydrothermal carbonization are widely practiced to convert algal biomass into fuels. Among the methods, pyrolysis, and hydrothermal liquefaction are most commonly practised to convert numerous algal biomasses into bio-oil and/or biochar to substitute crude oil in petroleum refinery. In this regard, this review is focused on the conversion of various microalgal; and cyanobacterial biomasses into bio-oil, and solid char products through pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction. Initially, pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction of algal biomass on bio-oil and biochar yield have been reviewed. As the composition and yield of bio-oil from algae depends on the reaction temperature, detailed account of the impact of temperature on the quantity and quality of bio-oil and solid char obtained from pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction were comprehensively presented in the review. Eventually, this article provides opportunities and scope in the pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction of algae for further research. 

Trends in dye industry effluent treatment and recovery of value added products
Increased population and industrialization generate a large number of organic pollutants that create problems on the planet earth. The level of freshwater is reducing which has pushed the society to reuse/recycle wastewater. Eco-friendly and economically sound treatment of industrial wastewater has attracted global attention and hence is a thrust area of research. Organic compounds rich wastewater can be used to generate bioenergy and value-added products from the resource recovery point of view. Wastewater treatment(s) can be used to trap energy from industrial effluents in form of biofuel, bioenergy and biogas. Recovered products can be used in various ways such as recovered nutrients for (bio)fertilizer production and algal biomass for bioplastic production. Microbial electrochemical technology is a promising approach for resource recovery. This review article aims to present and discuss trends and scientific developments about recovery of value-added products from dye industry effluent. It also provides state-of-art technical information about technologies for remediation of pollutants from dye industry effluent with emphasis on nanotechnological approaches and microbial electrochemical technologies (METs). It narrates literature on classification and properties of dyes, effects of dye pollutants on environment and human health and factors affecting degradation of dyes. Generation of bioenergy and recovery of valuables from dye industrial wastewater along with challenges and perspectives of this research area have been covered. 

Enhanced ultrasonic assisted biodiesel production from meat industry waste (pig tallow) using green copper oxide nanocatalyst: Comparison of response surface and neural network modelling
In order to reduce the fossil fuel usage, to meet huge energy demand and lessen air pollution, a green, clean and sustainable biofuel is the only alternative. Biodiesel production becomes cheaper when we use a cheap precursor, eco-friendly catalyst and a proper process. Pig tallow from the meat industry containing high fatty acid can be utilized as an effective precursor for biodiesel preparation. This study produced biodiesel from pig tallow oil via ultrasonic assisted and CuO catalysed two-step esterification process. Cinnamomum tamala (C. tamala) extract was utilized for CuO nanoparticles preparation and characterized using infra-red spectra, x-ray diffraction, particle size distribution, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Biodiesel production was modelled using Box-Behnken design (BBD) and artificial neural network (ANN), in the variables range of ultrasonication (US) time (20–40 min), CuO nanocatalyst load (1–3 wt%), and the methanol to pre-treated PTO molar ratio (10:1–30:1). Statistical analysis proved that the ANN modelling was better than BBD. Optimal yield of 97.82% obtained using Genetic Algorithm (GA) at US time: 35.36 min, CuO catalyst load: 2.07 wt%, and the molar ratio: 29.87:1. Comparison with previous studies proved that ultrasonication significantly reduced the CuO nanocatalyst load, and increased the molar ratio and improved the process. 

Catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction of biomass into bio-oils and other value-added products – A review
Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is an effective method for the conversion of biomass into biofuel involving moderate temperature and high pressure. However, the yield and quality of bio-oil are not sufficient for commercialization under normal HTL conditions. In this regard, the review emphasizes the need to select the appropriate catalyst for achieving high bio-oil yields with improved quality. Besides, the factors influencing the catalytic HTL, including the types of catalyst used in HTL, the mechanism of catalytic-HTL reaction, the effect of the catalyst on other HTL products including biochar, aqueous phase extracts, and gas, are discussed in detail. This review also summarizes by mentioning the barriers to be overcome in catalytic HTL by focusing on promising approaches. 

New micro/nanocomposite with peroxidase-like activity in construction of oxidases-based amperometric biosensors for ethanol and glucose analysis
Development of artificial enzymes, including nanozymes as an alternative for non-stable and expensive natural enzymes, is a booming field of modern Biosensorics and Biofuel Technology. In this study, we describe fabrication and characterization of sensitive biosensors for the detection of ethanol and glucose based on new micro/nanocomposite electrodes with peroxidase-like activity (nanozyme) coupled with microbial oxidases: alcohol oxidase (AOX) and glucose oxidase (GOX). The nanozyme was synthesized by modification of carbon microfibers (CF) by hemin (H) and gold (Au) nanoparticles. The formation of gold nanoparticles on the surface of hemin-modified carbon microfibers has been confirmed by the UV–Vis and X-ray spectroscopy as well by the SEM analysis. Compared to hemin-only modified electrodes, the resulting micro/nanocomposite CF-H-Au electrodes exhibit a higher specific catalytic activity and a better affinity for H2O2 in solution. The H2O2-sensitive CF-H-Au-modified electrodes showed a higher sensitivity (1.3–2.6-fold) compared with the nearest carbon-derived analogs and were used for the construction of highly sensitive ethanol and glucose biosensors. To eliminate diffusion limitation for substrates, AOX or GOX were fixed on the CF-H-Au-modified electrodes using a highly porous Nafion membrane. The main biosensors’ characteristics have been investigated. The developed biosensors were tested for ethanol and glucose analysis in the real samples of both grape must and wine. The results are in good agreement with the results obtained using enzymatic kits as reference approaches. Elsevier B.V.

Ni-BTC metal-organic framework loaded on MCM-41 to promote hydrodeoxygenation and hydrocracking in jet biofuel production
To improve catalytic performance of metal active sites in hydrodeoxygenation and hydrocracking conversion of methyl palmitate into high-quality jet biofuel, Ni-1,3,5-benzenetricarboxylate (Ni-BTC) metal-organic framework loaded on MCM-41(Mobil Composition of Matter No. 41) was prepared to enhance the accessibility of Ni active sites, facilitating hydrodeoxygenation to increase alkane yield with suitable arene content. The distance (0.98 nm) between Ni active sites within Ni-BTC structure, which was much larger than that (0.20 nm) within Ni nanoparticles, enabled methyl palmitate with maximum molecule width of 0.68 nm to go through Ni-BTC crystalline plane and get access to Ni active sites more easily. Ni-BTC nanosheets newly assembled in pore channels of MCM-41 were beneficial to effectively screen chain molecules of alkane products. With the largest BET surface area of 1014.2 m2/g, the Ni-BTC@MCM-41 catalyst with 2.5 wt% nickel (2.5Ni-BTC@MCM-41) reduced the nickel metal consumption by 75% comparing to nickel nanoparticle loading (10Ni@MCM-41), but achieved the best catalytic performances through hydrodeoxygenation on Ni active sites and hydrocracking on -SiOH acid sites. The alkane yield increased from 23.3% to 33.9%, while arene yield reduced from 22.4% to 6.5% in jet biofuel products. This resulted in an overall jet biofuel yield of 53.2% with uniform distribution along carbon numbers. The higher heating value of jet biofuel products thus increased to a peak of 45.90 MJ/kg. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Indirect Formic Acid Fuel Cell Based on a Palladium or Palladium-Alloy Film Separating the Fuel Reaction and Electricity Generation
An indirect fuel cell concept is presented herein, where a palladium-based membrane (either pure Pd with 25 μm thickness or Pd75Ag25 alloy with 10 μm thickness) is used to separate the electrochemical cell compartment from a catalysis compartment. In this system, hydrogen is generated from a hydrogen-rich molecule, such as formic acid, and selectively permeated through the membrane into the electrochemical compartment where it is then converted into electricity. In this way, hydrogen is generated and converted in situ, overcoming the issues associated with hydrogen storage and presenting chemical hydrogen storage as an attractive and feasible alternative with potential application in future micro- and macro-power devices for a wide range of applications and fuels. The Authors. ChemElectroChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH

Magnetic acid catalyst produced from acai seeds and red mud for biofuel production
In this study, a highly efficient, heterogeneous magnetic acid catalyst was developed for biofuel production. Two abundant residues found in the eastern Amazon region were used as precursors, namely, red mud and acai seeds. The catalyst was prepared for the impregnation method followed by carbonization and sulfonation. The materials were characterized using X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy coupled with an energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy system for elemental mapping, thermogravimetry, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, low temperature N2 adsorption, vibratory sample magnetometry and acid-base titration. The best yield obtained in the esterification reaction was for the acai seed sample and red mud in a 1:1 ratio, carbonized at 400 °C for 3 h and sulfonated at 80 °C for 3 h. This sample presented 88% conversion to methyl oleate under reaction conditions of 5% catalyst loading and a 1:12 oleic acid to methanol molar ratio at 100 °C for 1 h. At the end of the reaction, the catalyst was easily separated from the reaction by a magnet and exhibited good capacity for reuse for at least three reaction cycles. The experiments yielded promising results for obtaining magnetic carbon materials from waste generated in the Amazon region. In addition, to the best of our knowledge, the use of red mud as a magnetic source in the synthesis of sulfonated carbon-based catalysts has not been reported to date. 

Terminalia chebula as a novel green source for the synthesis of copper oxide nanoparticles and as feedstock for biodiesel production and its application on diesel engine
In this study, the components of Terminalia chebula plant such as leaves and seeds are effectively utilized as a green source for the synthesis of copper oxide nanoparticles (CuO NPs) and production of biodiesel, respectively. CuO NPs have been synthesized through solution combustion route using T. chebula leaves extract as a reducing-cum-fuel agent. Notably, the synthesized CuO NPs are used as a heterogeneous catalyst in the biodiesel production. The synthesized CuO NPs are characterized using XRD, FTIR, FESEM, BET, Zeta potential, DLS and UV–visible absorption spectroscopy. The obtained results showed the monoclinic crystal structure of CuO with rod-like morphology with diameter of around 100 nm. The CuO NPs were successfully utilized for the biodiesel synthesis using T. chebula oil as feedstock by varying the reaction parameters. The maximum of 97.1% yield of T. chebula methyl ester (TCME) is achieved at 3 wt% catalyst loading with methanol to oil molar ratio of 9:1 for the reaction time of 60 min at the of temperature 60 °C with constant stirring speed of 650 rpm. The CuO NPs showed a good catalytic stability up to four cycles with a slight loss in biodiesel yield. The kinetic study of TCME production fits well to the pseudo-first order reaction and the activation energy (Ea) and frequency factor (A) is found to be 40.74 kJ/mol and 5.7 × 104 min−1 respectively. Further, the TCME is also characterized by 1H NMR and FTIR. The fuel properties of TCME are also determined and found to be in the range of ASTM standards. The green chemistry metrics such as E-factor, atom economy, atom efficiency and solvent and catalyst environmental impact parameter have also been studied. Furthermore, the performance, combustion and emission characteristics of the test samples (diesel, biodiesel test blends such as B10, B20, B30, B40 and B100) on a single cylinder diesel engine have also been studied by varying the load (0%, 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%). 

Microbial biodiesel production from industrial organic wastes by oleaginous microorganisms: Current status and prospects
This review aims to encourage the technical development of microbial biodiesel production from industrial-organic-wastes-derived volatile fatty acids (VFAs). To this end, this article summarizes the current status of several key technical steps during microbial biodiesel production, including (1) acidogenic fermentation of bio-wastes for VFA collection, (2) lipid accumulation in oleaginous microorganisms, (3) microbial lipid extraction, (4) transesterification of microbial lipids into crude biodiesel, and (5) crude biodiesel purification. The emerging membrane-based bioprocesses such as electrodialysis, forward osmosis and membrane distillation, are promising approaches as they could help tackle technical challenges related to the separation and recovery of VFAs from the fermentation broth. The genetic engineering and metabolic engineering approaches could be applied to design microbial species with higher lipid productivity and rapid growth rate for enhanced fatty acids synthesis. The enhanced in situ transesterification technologies aided by microwave, ultrasound and supercritical solvents are also recommended for future research. Technical limitations and cost-effectiveness of microbial biodiesel production from bio-wastes are also discussed, in regard to its potential industrial development. Based on the overview on microbial biodiesel technologies, an integrated biodiesel production line incorporating all the critical technical steps is proposed for unified management and continuous optimization for highly efficient biodiesel production. Elsevier B.V.

Electrochemical properties of enzyme electrode covalently immobilized on a graphite oxide/cobalt hydroxide/chitosan composite mediator for biofuel cells
A critical factor for the performance of a biofuel cell is an immobilization of the redox enzyme for continuous catalytic reaction and efficient electron transfer. However, the main obstacle associated with enzyme electrode is the reduced surface area for the accommodation of enzymes, leading to poor power output. This study aimed to optimize the efficient electrical communication for glucose oxidase (GOx) on the surface of a graphite oxide/cobalt hydroxide/chitosan composite as mediator, thereby enhancing the generation of power output. Immobilization efficiency was affected by the different concentrations of 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide (EDC)/N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS). Also, the surface of enzyme electrode was observed by XPS, Raman, and AFM, respectively. The electrochemical characterization showed that the immobilized GOx possesses the highest activity at EDC:NHS(40:80 mM) concentration. The power output under the optimal condition was found to be 2.24 mWcm−2 of power density using the three-electrode cell in 0.1 M PBS solution at room temperature. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Potential of Green Diesel to Complement the Brazilian Energy Production: A Review
The introduction of biodiesel to the energy production of Brazil occurred mainly because of a legislative incentive that delimits minimum contents of this biofuel to be added to conventional diesel in the whole country. Despite the growth prospects for this sector, there are several difficulties related to the use of biodiesel in combustion engines. Hydroprocessed diesel or green diesel is a viable alternative of renewable biofuel to complement the conventional diesel production; it presents several technical and economic advantages over the biodiesel produced through the transesterification process. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to gather technical information about green diesel, compare it to biodiesel, and analyze the potential of introducing this biofuel to the energy production in Brazil as a substitute or a complementary alternative to conventional diesel. Green diesel stands out technically, mainly when produced from residual raw materials. Considering green diesel production only from fatty waste, it is estimated to serve approximately 55% of the biodiesel demand in Brazil, today produced mostly from crude soybean oil. In addition, the production of this biofuel may occur in existing plants of oil processing through minor adaptations, which ensures reduced installation costs, production, and logistics, especially when considering the current installed capacity in the country. The biggest deadlock related to large-scale production of green diesel in oil refineries in Brazil is the lack of specific legislation that regulates and defines parameters and conditions for the marketing of biofuel. 

A comprehensive review on oil extraction and biodiesel production technologies
Dependence on fossil fuels for meeting the growing energy demand is damaging the world’s environment. There is a dire need to look for alternative fuels that are less potent to greenhouse gas emissions. Biofuels offer several advantages with less harmful effects on the environment. Biodiesel is synthesized from the organic wastes produced extensively like edible, non-edible, microbial, and waste oils. This study reviews the feasibility of the state-of-the-art feedstocks for sustainable biodiesel synthesis such as availability, and capacity to cover a significant proportion of fossil fuels. Biodiesel synthesized from oil crops, vegetable oils, and animal fats are the potential renewable carbon-neutral substitute to petroleum fuels. This study concludes that waste oils with higher oil content including waste cooking oil, waste palm oil, and algal oil are the most favorable feedstocks. The comparison of biodiesel production and parametric analysis is done critically, which is necessary to come up with the most appropriate feedstock for biodiesel synthesis. Since the critical comparison of feedstocks along with oil extraction and biodiesel production technologies has never been done before, this will help to direct future researchers to use more sustainable feedstocks for biodiesel synthesis. This study concluded that the use of third-generation feedstocks (wastes) is the most appropriate way for sustainable biodiesel production. The use of innovative costless oil extraction technologies including supercritical and microwave-assisted transesterification method is recommended for oil extraction. by the authors.

Nanocellulose Paper Semiconductor with a 3D Network Structure and Its Nano-Micro-Macro Trans-Scale Design
Semiconducting nanomaterials with 3D network structures exhibit various fascinating properties such as electrical conduction, high permeability, and large surface areas, which are beneficial for adsorption, separation, and sensing applications. However, research on these materials is substantially restricted by the limited trans-scalability of their structural design and tunability of electrical conductivity. To overcome this challenge, a pyrolyzed cellulose nanofiber paper (CNP) semiconductor with a 3D network structure is proposed. Its nano-micro-macro trans-scale structural design is achieved by a combination of iodine-mediated morphology-retaining pyrolysis with spatially controlled drying of a cellulose nanofiber dispersion and paper-crafting techniques, such as microembossing, origami, and kirigami. The electrical conduction of this semiconductor is widely and systematically tuned, via the temperature-controlled progressive pyrolysis of CNP, from insulating (1012 ω cm) to quasimetallic (10-2 ω cm), which considerably exceeds that attained in other previously reported nanomaterials with 3D networks. The pyrolyzed CNP semiconductor provides not only the tailorable functionality for applications ranging from water-vapor-selective sensors to enzymatic biofuel cell electrodes but also the designability of macroscopic device configurations for stretchable and wearable applications. This study provides a pathway to realize structurally and functionally designable semiconducting nanomaterials and all-nanocellulose semiconducting technology for diverse electronics. The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

Selective hydrodeoxygenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2, 5-dimethylfuran over mesoporous silica supported copper catalysts
Selective catalytic hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to prepare 2, 5-dimethylfuran (DMF) was studied as this product is a good biofuel. A sequence of copper dispersed on SBA-15 catalysts are designed and tested their activity for HMF hydrodeoxygenation reaction. The physico-chemical characteristics of the catalysts are gained from powder XRD, TEM, N2-adsorption desorption, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR and N2O-chemisorptions studies. Characterization results indicate the fine dispersion of Cu metal on SBA-15 with high surface area and appropriate acidic sites. The catalyst with 15%Cu on SBA-15 showed high activity towards DMF with 90% yield. The optimized reaction conditions were 180 °C of reaction temperature, 20 bar H2 pressure, and a reaction time of 8 h to achieve maximum yield. The catalyst is recyclable and exhibits consistent activity.

Modeling and optimization of biodiesel synthesis using TiO2–ZnO nanocatalyst and characteristics of biodiesel made from waste sunflower oil
Biodiesel as a renewable fuel is made from renewable materials such as animal fats, plant oils, and can be used in compression ignition (diesel) engines by mixing with conventional diesel. Recently, nanocatalysts are being used to generate biodiesel, as they are able to make these reactions more sufficient by having a large surface-to-volume ratio. TiO2 and ZnO nanoparticles are categorized as metal oxide nanoparticles. Each of them has its own special characteristics. Besides, they show a level of cooperation which is discussed below. In this paper, in addition to the surface method employed for numerical analysis, the experiments on the biodiesel production from waste sunflower oil are implemented by transesterification method using TiO2ZnO nanocatalyst. Effective process parameters, including the reaction temperature, oil: alcohol molar ratio, catalyst percentage, and optimal conditions are determined and optimized accordingly. The highest product yield was 96.4% in the ratio of 1–6 methanol to oil, 60 ​°C, and 200 ​mg/L TiO2–ZnO nanocatalyst. An optimization study shows that the highest biodiesel production is possible using nanocatalysts of 264 ​mg/L at a temperature of 66 ​°C. The Authors

Effect of Covid-19 on NO2 and particular matter (PM) concentrations and reaffirmation of the need to use biofuels in the world
On 23 January 2020, the world saw the first coronavirus lockdown come into force in Wuhan, China in an effort to stop the spread of the illness. This lockdown set the precedent for similar measures in other cities across the country, putting a halt to daily activities including industry and traffic. Factories and other industries were shut down and people were confined to their homes. Similar measures were then put in place worldwide in the following weeks and months. As a result, a significant reduction in air pollutants across the world was detected by satellites. This included reduced emissions of particular matter (PM) and nitrogen dioxide. The aim of this work is to investigate the effects of COVID-19 pandemics on NO2 and particular matter (PM) concentrations during lockdown, to answer the question of whether this crisis should reduce the development of biofuels or with regard to the reduction and end of COVID-19 restrictions we need to pay more attention to the effects and importance of biofuels on human health. The lockdown reduced the amount of PM in different countries of the world by 9 to 63% compared to the time of corona lock. Its distribution also decreased by 20–30% in European countries and up to 70% in some Asian countries. But wait, you should not be happy. Because these changes have taken place at a time when the world is facing a crisis and governments are forced to shut down businesses and impose locks. The use of biofuels can also reduce the emission of these air pollutants. Corona conditions once again reminded of the need to use these fuels. The condition of the corona is also temporary, and with the discovery of the corona vaccine and the start of vaccination around the world, these locks will be reduced and air pollutants will return to the time of the previous corona. Therefore, the need to use renewable and sustainable energy such as biofuels becomes apparent. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Improved Estimation of Bio-Oil Yield Based on Pyrolysis Conditions and Biomass Compositions Using GA- And PSO-ANFIS Models
This paper incorporates the adaptive neurofuzzy inference system (ANFIS) technique to model the yield of bio-oil. The estimation of this parameter was performed according to pyrolysis conditions and biomass compositions of feedstock. For this purpose, this paper innovates two optimization methods including a genetic algorithm (GA) and particle swarm optimization (PSO). Primary data were gathered from previous studies and included 244 data of biodiesel oils. The findings showed a coefficient determination (R2) of 0.937 and RMSE of 2.1053 for the GA-ANFIS model, and a coefficient determination (R2) of 0.968 and RMSE of 1.4443 for PSO-ANFIS. This study indicates the capability of the PSO-ANFIS algorithm in the estimation of the bio-oil yield. According to the performed analysis, this model shows a higher ability than the previously presented models in predicting the target values and can be a suitable alternative to time-consuming and difficult experimental tests. Zhimin Li et al.

One-pot domino conversion of biomass-derived furfural to γ-valerolactone with an in-situ formed bifunctional catalyst
γ-Valerolactone (GVL) is widely used as a green solvent and in the generation of liquid fuels. GVL can be obtained from biomass-derived furanic compounds through a cascade reaction process, which is extremely challenging due to the need for different active sites in a single pot. Here, we reported a domino conversion process of directly upgrading furfural (FF) to GVL in isopropanol over a commercially available and budget catalyst ZrCl4 that can in-situ release Brønsted acid (HCl) and Lewis acid/base species (ZrO(OH) n ·xH2O). The in-situ formed bifunctional catalyst can significantly enable twice transfer hydrogenation, etherification, the ring-opening, and cyclization reactions, giving a high GVL yield of 56.5% from FF at 180°C for 6 h. In addition, the solid residues collected after reaction could be calcined to obtain t-ZrO2-(C) nanoparticles with a rough surface, in which the insoluble humin attached to the hydrolyzed solid was demonstrated to improve the layered aggregate structure of the resulting t-ZrO2-(C). Interestingly, t-ZrO2-(C) showed good performance in catalytic conversion of FF to furfuryl alcohol (FAOL) with ca. 80% yield. The developed bifunctional and recyclable catalytic system exhibits potential for one-pot multi-step biomass valorization. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

The critical techno-economic aspects for production of B10 biodiesel from second generation feedstocks: a review
Global energy demand continues to increase owing to advancements in key growth sectors of Economies. Transportation-related emissions resulting from petroleum use account for 23% of total energy-related CO2 emissions. Biofuels including biodiesel are renewable substitutes for transportation fuels that have attracted global interest. This paper reviewed existing literature on technological, economic, and life cycle environmental aspects vital for assessment of the viability of production of second-generation biodiesel including the B10 blend advocated for Uganda. The quantity of biodiesel required to fulfil a B10 blend for Uganda’s downstream petroleum sector is one hundred million litres per annum. To meet this demand, 50,000 ha of land is required for cultivation of biodiesel feedstocks against the available 6,900,000 ha. Jatropha, castor, and croton, offer agronomical advantages. Biodiesel produced from these feedstocks through transesterification, should conform to ASTM D6751/EN14214 standards. Physicochemical, economic, and environmental assessments are vital to confirm its techno-economic viability. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Catalytic Membrane Micro-Reactors for Fuel and Biofuel Processing: A Mini Review
Micro-reactor (MR) technology is known as an alternative technique for producing materials in a more sustainable way. The advantages of micro-reactors and membrane separation which are combined in membrane micro-reactors (MMR) listed as improved heat and mass transfer, high surface area to volume ratio, enhanced catalytic efficiency with no equilibrium limitation, flexibility in reactor design, a short distance of molecular diffusion as well as high operational safety. The restriction of low production capacity of micro-reactors can be easily solved by using parallel micro-channels in a reactor chip. This mini-review represents firstly the definition of micro-reactors as well as the advantages and disadvantages of membrane micro-reactors. Furthermore, the theoretical basics of membrane micro-reactors and their fabrication methods are presented. At last, the application of catalytic membrane micro-reactors in different processes is given especially in biofuel production. The achieved results of previous researches for hydrogen and other fuels production show better performance of catalytic MMRs in terms of reaction conversion and coke deposition compared with convectional reactors at the same reaction conditions., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

The efficient conversion of D-Fructose to 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural using organic acids as catalytic promoters
5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is one of the main chemical building blocks to generate other high value-added biofuels and biochemicals. This study aimed to produce HMF from fructose dehydration under a biphasic system using various organic acids as catalytic promoters, such as formic acid, acetic acid, lactic acid, succinic acid, and levulinic acid. Among these organic acids, the acetic acid was found to be the best promoter in this system. The experimental results showed a prominent correlation between the HMF formation and the pKa – the higher pKa gave rise to greater HMF yield and lower activity toward side reactions. Response surface methodology was performed to identify the optimum reaction temperature, time, and promoter concentration for fructose dehydration. Among the three variables, the reaction temperature played the most significant role in fructose conversion and HMF yield. The optimum condition to achieve the highest HMF yield at 72.5% from fructose dehydration was found at 195.8 °C under a mild concentration of acetic acid at 0.075 M for 3.2 min. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Preparation of Bio-Oil from Scenedesmus Acutus Using Thermochemical Liquefaction in a 1 L Reactor
Biomass from microalgae is a potential feedstock for biofuels production. It poses no threat to food security as it does not compete with agricultural crops for arable land. Scenedesmus acutus was used as feedstock to produce bio-oil in a large liquefaction reactor. The influence of reaction temperature (280–360ºC), reaction atmosphere (N2or CO2) and solvent on bio-oil yield, C-16 fatty acid yield and oil properties were investigated. Oils were characterised using gas chromatography, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and ultimate analysis. Higher bio-oil yields were obtained in a CO2atmosphere (250 g.kg-1dry microalgae) than in a N2atmosphere (210 g.kg-1dry microalgae) whilst higher C16 fatty acid concentrations (600 g.kg-1bio-oil) were recorded in N2atmosphere compared to oil prepared in a CO2atmosphere (500 g.kg-1bio-oil). The oil yield increased to a maximum at 320°C, after which there were no significant changes. Highest bio-oil yields (425 g.kg-1dry microalgae) were obtained in ethanol as solvent. FTIR spectroscopy and ultimate analysis showed that proteins present in the feedstock were degraded by breakage of peptide linkages, and nitrogen present in the oils is peptide fragments from protein degradation. The carbon content of all produced oils was high, but the hydrogen content was low, leading to low hydrogen/carbon ratios. Energy consumption and energy efficiency calculations showed that liquefaction in both reaction atmospheres results in a net energy gain, and a CO2atmosphere is best for high energy efficiency.. All Rights Reserved.

Review of green diesel production from fatty acid deoxygenation over Ni-based catalysts
Green diesel is a second-generation biofuel developed in response to the increasing demand for liquid fuel and the predicted decrease in the availability of fossil fuels, especially diesel as the main liquid fuel used in transportation vehicles. Green diesel can be produced via deoxygenation from various feedstocks, such as vegetable oils, animal fats, fatty acids, and waste cooking oils. Normally, the deoxygenation reaction in green diesel production occurs in a multiphase system. There are three main pathways in the liquid phase of the reaction: decarboxylation, decarbonylation, and hydrodeoxygenation, from which liquid alkane hydrocarbons can be derived, and these are known as green diesel. This review paper discusses several deoxygenation pathways in a multiphase-reaction process to produce green diesel. Nickel metal is a non-noble metal catalyst which has been confirmed from many studies for use in deoxygenation with good performance. The performance of the nickel catalyst depends on different factors including the type of catalyst support and promoter, reaction temperature, reaction pressure, and reaction time. Finally, recent progress and future trends in green diesel production are discussed. Elsevier B.V.

High-Grade Biofuel Synthesis from Paired Electrohydrogenation and Electrooxidation of Furfural Using Symmetric Ru/Reduced Graphene Oxide Electrodes
Electrochemical hydrogenation is a challenging technoeconomic process for sustainable liquid fuel production from biomass-derived compounds. In general, half-cell hydrogenation is paired with water oxidation to generate the low economic value of O2 at the anode. Herein, a new strategy for the rational design of Ru/reduced graphene oxide (Ru/RGO) nanocomposites through a cost-effective and straightforward microwave irradiation technique is reported for the first time. The Ru nanoparticles with an average size of 3.5 nm are well anchored into the RGO frameworks with attractive nanostructures to enhance the furfural's paired electrohydrogenation (ECH) and electrooxidation (ECO) process to achieve high-grade biofuel. Furfural is used as a reactant with the paired electrolyzer to produce furfuryl alcohol and 2-methylfuran at the cathode side. Simultaneously, 2-furic acid and 5-hydroxyfuroic acid along with plenty of H+ and e- are generated at the anode side. Most impressively, the paired electrolyzer induces an extraordinary ECH and ECO of furfural, with the desired production of 2-methylfuran (yield = 91% and faradic efficiency (FE) of 95%) at XFF = 97%, outperforming the ECH half-cell reaction. The mechanisms of the half-cell reaction and paired cell reaction are discussed. Exquisite control of the reaction parameters, optimized strategies, and the yield of individual products are demonstrated. These results show that the Ru/RuO nanocomposite is a potential candidate for biofuel production in industrial sectors. 

Cellulose and TiO2–ZrO2 nanocomposite as a catalyst for glucose conversion to 5-EMF
This work demonstrated the use of green material catalysts, produced from Sengon sawdust waste, to obtain nanocellulose biopolymers. The green material catalysts were utilized as catalysts support of TiO2−ZrO2 binary oxide in the form of nanocomposite materials with superior synergistic properties. The isolation of nanocellulose was achieved using a hydrolysis method with a yield of 63.40%. The TiO2 and ZrO2 nanoparticles have average particle sizes of around 25 and 15 nm, respectively, and the binary oxides of TiO2–ZrO2 pretained an average particle size of 30 nm were used. Furthermore, the nanocellulose combined with the TiO2−ZrO2 binary oxide had formed a cellulose/TiO2−ZrO2 nanocomposite with an average particle size of 30 nm. This indicates that the supporting nanocellulose can stabilize the nanoparticles and avoid aggregation. Moreover, the nanocomposites can be used as a catalyst for the conversion of glucose to 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (5-EMF). The catalytic activity increased with the nanoparticle effect obtained ZrO2, TiO2, TiO2-ZrO2, and cellulose and TiO2-ZrO2 nanocomposite, in 15.50%, 20.20%, 35.20%, and 45.50% yields, respectively. The best yield of 5-EMF was 45.50%, with reaction conditions of 1:1 TiO2–ZrO2 ratio, 4 h reaction time, and 160 °C reaction temperature. The use of nanocellulose biopolymer generated from Sengon sawdust waste in Indonesia provides a promising catalyst support material as an alternative green catalyst. In addition, the glucose carbohydrates can be converted to biofuel feedstocks in the development of a renewable alternative energy. Copyright by Authors, Published by BCREC Group.

Role of microalgae as a source for biofuel production in the future: A short review
The continued burning of fossil fuels since the beginning of the last century led to higher emissions of greenhouse gases and thus leads to global warming. Microalgae are one of the most important sources of green hydrocarbons because this type of algae has a high percentage of lipids and has rapid growth, consumes the carbon dioxide in large quantities. Besides, the cultivation of these types of algae does not require arable land. This review aims to explain the suitability of microalgae as a biofuel source depending on the fat content, morphology, and other parameters and their effect on the conversion processes of microalgae oil into biofuels by different zeolite catalytic reactions. It also discusses in detail the major chemical processes that convert microalgae oil to chemical products. This review sheds light on one of the most important groups of microalgae (Chlorella vulgaris microalgae). This review includes a historical overview and a comprehensive description of the structure needed to develop this type of algae. The most important methods of production, their advantages and disadvantages are also deliberated in this work. Copyright by Authors, Published by BCREC Group.

Biofuel production from novel Prunus domestica kernel oil: process optimization technique
Biodiesel obtained from low-cost non-edible oils is the most promising alternative fuel for conventional diesel fuel. In this current work, Prunus domestica kernel oil was used as a feedstock for synthesizing methyl ester. The FFA value of the kernel oil was examined by employing the isopropyl alcohol technique and found to be 11.63 mg KOH/g. Hence, oil was processed with a two-step transesterification process using acid (H2SO4) and base (NaOH) catalyst reaction to convert into biodiesel. To obtain maximum yield and high-quality biodiesel, an optimization technique was employed. In this technique, the process parameters such as experimental duration, reaction temperature, NaOH concentration, and methanol to oil ratio were optimized based on Taguchi technique. The investigations revealed that 150 min, 60°C, 8:1 ratio, and 1 wt% NaOH were optimal process parameters obtained with a reaction efficiency of 97.86%. The experimental analysis considered that the methanol to oil ratio was happened to be the most substantial entity using ANOVA. The biodiesel Prunus domestica methyl ester produced matched and fulfilled the standards EN14214., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Bio-oil production by pyrolysis of Azolla filiculoides and Ulva fasciata macroalgae
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: In this study, the characteristics of bio-oil samples produced through slow pyrolysis of two different macroalgae, i.e. Azolla filiculoides and Ulva fasciata, at optimized conditions were determined and compared. METHODS: For this purpose, the effects of temperature (300-500 °C), carrier gas flow rate (0.2-0.8 L/min), and heating rate (10-20 °C/min) on the final bio-oil production were optimized using response surface methodology established by a central composite design. FINDINGS: The highest bio-oil yield from U. fasciata (34.29%) was obtained at the temperature of 500 °C, nitrogen flow rate of 0.2 L/min, and heating rate of 10 °C/min. As for A. filiculoides feedstock, the highest bio-oil yield (30.83%) was achieved at the temperature of 461 °C, nitrogen flow rate of 0.5 L/min, and heating rate of 20 °C/min. Both bio-oil samples contained saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons. However, the average hydrocarbon chain length was relatively shorter in U. fasciata bio-oil (C4-C16) than in bio-oil from A. filiculoides (C6-C24). Although both bio-oils had almost identical heating values, the U. fasciata bio-oil showed more appropriate properties, i.e. lower viscosity and density. Furthermore, the energy recovery from U. fasciata pyrolysis was calculated as 56.6% which was almost 1.5 times higher than the energy recovery from A. filiculoides pyrolysis. CONCLUSION: The results indicated that U. fasciata bio-oil, with its superior characteristics, could be proposed as a promising candidate for application in diesel-based automotive industries. 2021 GJESM. All rights reserved.

Energy-Saving and Sustainable Separation of Bioalcohols by Adsorption on Bone Char
The separation of ethanol, propanol, and butanol from aqueous solutions was studied using adsorption on bone char. Adsorption kinetics and thermodynamic parameters of this separation method were studied at different conditions of pH and temperature. Results showed that the maximum adsorption capacities of these bioalcohols were obtained at pH 6 and 20°C. An exothermic separation was identified, which can be mainly associated to hydrophobic interactions between bone char surface and bioalcohols. Binary adsorption studies were also performed using mixtures of these bioalcohols. An antagonistic adsorption was observed for all bioalcohols where the ethanol and propanol separation was significantly affected by butanol. A model based on an artificial neural network was proposed to correlate both single and binary adsorption isotherms of these bioalcohols with bone char. It was concluded that the bone char could be an interesting adsorbent for the sustainable separation and recovery of bioalcohols from fermentation broths, which are actually considered emerging liquid biofuels and relevant industrial chemicals. Oslery Becerra-Pérez et al.

Efficient production of biodiesel catalyzed by acidic nanoporous carbon materials: A review
Background: With the gradual decrease in fossil energy, the development of alternatives to fossil energy has attracted more and more attention. Biodiesel is considered to be the most potent alternative to fossil energy, mainly due to its green, renewable, and biodegradable advantages. The stable, efficient and reusable catalysts are undoubtedly the most critical in the preparation of biodiesel. Among them, nanoporous carbon-based acidic materials are very important biodiesel catalysts. Objective: The latest advances of acidic nanoporous carbon catalysts in biodiesel production was reviewed. Methods: Biodiesel is mainly synthesized by esterification and transesterification. Due to the important role of nanoporous carbon-based acidic materials in the catalytic preparation of biodiesel, we focused on the synthesis, physical and chemical properties, catalytic performance and reusability. Results: Acidic catalytic materials have a good catalytic performance for high acid value feedstocks. However, the preparation of biodiesel with acid catalyst requires relatively strict reaction conditions. The application of nanoporous acidic carbon-based materials, due to the support of carbon-based framework, makes the catalyst exhibit good stability and unique pore structure, accelerates the reaction mass transfer speed, which in turn accelerated the reaction. Conclusion: Nanoporous carbon-based acidic catalysts have the advantages such as, suitable pore structure, high active sites, and high stability. In order to make these catalytic processes more efficient, environmentally friendly and low cost, developing new catalytic materials with high specific surface area, suitable pore size, high acid density, and excellent performance would be an important research direction for the future biodiesel catalysts. Bentham Science Publishers.

Alkaline modified A-site deficient perovskite catalyst surface with exsolved nanoparticles and functionality in biomass valorisation
Environmental problems associated with the use of fossil fuels and increase in energy demands due to rise in population and rapid industrialisation, are the driving forces for energy. Catalytic conversion of biomass to renewable energies is among the promising approaches to materialize the above. This requires development of robust catalysts to suppress deactivation due to carbon deposition and agglomeration. In this work, surface properties and chemistry such as exsolution of B-site metal catalyst nanoparticles, particle size and distribution, as well as catalyst-support interactions were tailored through the use of alkaline dopants to enhance catalytic behaviour in valorisation of glycerol. The incorporation of alkaline metals into the lattice of an Asite deficient perovskite modified the surface basic properties and morphology with a consequent robust catalyst-support interaction. This resulted in promising catalytic behaviour of the materials where hydrogen selectivity of over 30% and CO selectivity of over 60% were observed. The catalyst ability to reduce fouling of the catalyst surface as a result of carbon deposition during operation was also profound due to the robust catalyst-support interaction occurring at the exsolved nanoparticles due to their socketing and the synergy between the dopant metals in the alloy in perovskite catalyst systems. In particular, one of the designed systems, La0.4Sr0.2Ca0.3Ni0.1Ti0.9O3±δ, displayed almost 100% resistance to carbon deposition. Therefore, lattice rearrangement using exsolution and choice of suitable dopant could be tailored to improve catalytic performance. BRTeam. All rights reserved.

Production of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural derived cassava peels using deep eutectic solvent based Choline chloride
The conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to biofuel as potential sources of transportation fuels, and for being both non-toxic and biodegradable. 5- Hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF) has been discovered to be a precursor for biofuel production and can be produced from biomass, which is readily available, renewable, and sustainable. Cellulose content in cassava peels is an opportunity to produce bio-based chemical products called 5-hydroxymethylfurfural. This study aims to determine the proper condition of glucose dehydration reaction of cassava peels hydrolysis. The optimum condition of dehydration reaction in this study was a glucose mass ratio: Deep eutectic solvent of 1:6 and a reaction temperature of 80 ᵒC and the highest yield of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural using deep eutectic solvents (DES) based on choline chloride/oxalic acid was 70.22% and using DES based on choline chloride/oxalic acid was 64.50% at 5.70% glucose initial concentration using 1.5% H2SO4 catalyst on hydrolysis reaction cellulose of cassava peels. Physicochemical properties of deep eutectic solvents (DES) were pH of 5.8, density of 1.1574 gr/cm3 and viscosity of 119.33 cP. The results in this study indicate that the addition of DES choline chloride/oxalic acid can increase the yield of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural obtained. Trans Tech Publications Ltd, Switzerland.

Transesterification of parsley seed oil using a green catalyst: considering the optimization process and modeling
The production of bio-based diesel by using calcium oxide catalyst derived from waste material was investigated in this work as well as the influence of varying the process variables on the biodiesel yield. The optimisation of the process variables (ratio of alcohol-to-oil, temperature, and the amount of catalyst) for parsley biodiesel was achieved using RSM. The biodiesel yield of 92.19% was predicted from the data analysis as the optimum yield at optimum reaction conditions of 9.4:1, 59.31°C, and 2.7 wt% for the molar ratio of alcohol: oil, temperature and catalyst amount respectively. The characterisation of the biodiesel was achieved with FTIR and GC-MS. Also, the fuel characteristics of biodiesel were within the specifications of the ASTM D6751. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Two promoters of biodiesel and biomass production induced by different concentrations of myo-inositol in Chlorella vulgaris
Microalgae are a large group of phototrophic microorganisms that convert CO2 into biomass, which can be used as an important source of biofuels. Biofuels have a lot of interesting applications in various industries. The main objective of the current study was to assess the biomass and lipid production, gene expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (accD) and ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase large-chain (rbcL), and the lipid content produced by myo-inositol treatment in the microalga Chlorella vulgaris. Three different myo-inositol concentrations (i.e., 50, 100, and 200 mg/L) were added to the algal growth media, and the algal cells were sampled on the day of entering the stationary phase of the growth cycle. Biomass production was increased by increasing the supplement. However, the 200 mg/L concentration of myo-inositol was critical for lipid production. To evaluate the effect of the vitamin on the expression of the accD and rbcL genes, real-time PCR was used. The rbcL gene expression increased in relation to biomass production, i.e., 224.08 times higher than the control. On the other hand, the accD expression at 200 mg/L myo-inositol concentration, as physiological stress, increased, i.e., 95.2 times higher than the control. Therefore, this growth complement can induce biomass and lipid production. Findings of the present study provide valuable insight into determining the biochemical modulation strategies of biomass and lipid production. In this study, two separate controlling systems and two independent promoters were proposed to regulate the transcription of rbcL and accD genes induced by various concentrations of myo-inositol., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE part of Springer Nature.

Biodiesel and green diesel generation: An overview
First, second, third, and fourth-generation biofuels are continuously evolving as a promising substitute to petrodiesel catalyzed by energy depletion, economic and environmental considerations. Bio-diesel can be synthesized from various biomass sources, which are commonly divided into FAME and renewable biodiesel. FAME biodiesel is generally produced by the transesterification of vegetable oils and fats while renewable diesel is produced by hydro-deoxygenation of vegetable and waste oils and fats. The different generation, processing technologies and standards for FAME and renewable biodiesel are reviewed. Finally, the life cycle analysis and production cost of conventional and renewable biodiesel are described. P. Vignesh et al., published by IFP Energies nouvelles, 2021.

Transesterification via parametric modelling and optimization of marula (Sclerocarya birrea) seed oil methyl ester synthesis
This study investigates Marula (Sclerocarya birrea) seed oil (SBSO) as a novel feedstock for biodiesel production through the transesterification process catalysed by heterogeneous bio-alkali derived from banana (Musa acuminata) peels. Response surface methodology (RSM) and artificial neural network (ANN) tools were used for the modelling and optimization of the process variables. The reaction process parameters considered were methanol/SBSO molar ratio, catalyst loading levels, reaction time and temperature. Central composite design (CCD) was espoused to generate 30 experimental conditions which were deployed in investigating the individual and synergetic effect of the process input variables on Sclerocarya birrea oil methyl ester (SBOME) yield. Appropriate statistical indices were adopted to investigate the predictive aptitude of the two models. Analysis shows that ANN model obtained for the transesterification process has a higher coefficient of determination (R2) of 0.9846 and lower absolute average deviation (AAD) of 0.07% compared to RSM model with R2 of 0.9482 and AAD of 0.12%. The process modelling outcome also confirmed ANN performance to be more precise than RSM. At methanol/ SBSO ratio of 6:1, catalyst loading level of 2 wt%, process reaction time of 50 min and temperature of 55°C, the experimental maximum SBOME yield was observed to be 96.45 wt % following the ANN predicted yield of 96.45 wt % and RSM predicted yield of 96.65 wt % respectively. The analysed fuel properties of SBOME was found satisfactory within the biodiesel stipulated standard limit(s). The study establishes that SBSO is a good source for biodiesel production and its biodiesel methyl ester is a potential substitute for petroleum diesel and a bioenergy fuel. by Japan Oil Chemists’ Society.

Biodiesel production from microalgae Dunaliella tertiolecta: a study on economic feasibility on large-scale cultivation systems
Microalgae have attracted significant interest worldwide as a prospective biofuel feedstock. Currently, biodiesel potential of microalgae has been confined at lab scale; however, economic feasibility is a limiting factor for commercialization. Thus, development of large-scale production system is an essential element to assess economic feasibility as well as policy support needed to implement large-scale production. To answer this, Dunaliella tertiolecta was selected for biodiesel feedstock production among other isolates, having 1.244 g/L dry biomass yield and 37%w/w lipid content. Operational cost of biodiesel production was 3.19 USD/L for lab scale which can be reduced to 0.77 USD/L at large-scale production by integrated and efficient resource utilization, namely, natural seawater (NSW), as growth media and unproductive coastland for production site. Capital investment of USD 82019.89 was calculated for biodiesel production facility with 16.7 KL annual production for one-hectare unproductive land. Economic evaluation of 10 years of production resulted into net present value (NPV) of USD 750.91 and 5.18% internal rate of return (IRR). Capital recovery can be achieved in 7.76 years as per normal payback analysis. Additionally, NPV can be increased to USD 30355 by upscaling production to five times with 50% more biomass productivity that would result into 14.23% IRR. Efficient resource integration, multiple products and co-products with market linkages, and appropriate policy facilitation are key factors for commercial viability of microalgae biodiesel production., The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE part of Springer Nature.

Catalytic performance of MgO /Fe2O3-SiO2 core-shell magnetic nanocatalyst for biodiesel production of Camelina sativa seed oil: Optimization by RSM-CCD method
Many investigations have introduced MgO as a favorable solid base catalyst. Although magnesium oxide catalyst does not have as strong of basic sites as calcium oxide catalyst, it is stable under ambient conditions. Furthermore, magnesium oxide catalyst activity is not sensitive to the water content of the reactants, which makes magnesium oxide catalyst possible for commercial purposes. In addition, the use of the non-magnetic catalyst could be facilely recovered by magnetic and reusable several times without a notable decrease in catalytic activity. In the present study, MgO /Fe2O3-SiO2 core-shell magnetic nanocatalyst was synthesized by precipitation method for biodiesel production. This nanocatalyst was characterized by different techniques such as Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) to recognize functional groups, measurement magnetic characteristics by vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM), identification of the phase and crystalline structure of nanocatalysts using X-radiation (XRD) and a survey of morphology and surface properties by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Then, the synthesized catalyst was utilized to synthesis biodiesel from the transesterification reaction of camelina seed oil with methyl alcohol. A high biodiesel efficiency (99 %) was obtained under optimized conditions using the central composite design (CCD) based on the response surface methodology (RSM). The optimization was carried out in two separate parts; the initial part focuses on the optimization of the variables affecting the catalytic performance and the second part includes optimizing the variables affecting the reaction conditions of biodiesel production. The biodiesel was examined by GC- Mass spectra and physicochemical characteristics such as viscosity and refractive index. The optimum performance was achieved over MgO /Fe2O3-SiO2 core-shell magnetic nanocatalyst at calcination time 2.29 h, calcination temperature 650 ͦ C, 55.25 % w/w MgO to Fe2O3-SiO2 core-shell magnetic nanocatalyst, methanol to oil molar ratio 12/1, the catalyst to oil weight ratio 4.9 % w/w, reaction temperature 70 ͦ C and reaction time 4.1 h. Moreover, MgO /Fe2O3-SiO2 core-shell magnetic nanocatalyst could be removed facilely from the reaction system by a magnet and catalytic performance maintained for the four reused cycles. Based on the results, camelina seed oil could be utilized as a promising alternative biofuel for impressive, renewable and green production of biodiesel. Elsevier B.V.

Process optimization, green chemistry balance and technoeconomic analysis of biodiesel production from castor oil using heterogeneous nanocatalyst
In the present work, zinc doped calcium oxide was used as a nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from castor oil. The optimal conditions of biodiesel conversion and green chemistry balance were obtained with response surface methodology. Five green chemistry parameters like carbon efficiency, atom economy, reaction mass efficiency, stoichiometric factor and environmental factor were optimized. The sustainable biodiesel yield 84.9% and green chemistry balance 0.902 was achieved at methanol to oil molar ratio 10.5:1, temperature 57 °C, time 70 min, and catalyst concentration 2.15%. The synthesized biodiesel was characterized by GCMS and FTIR, and physic-chemical properties were determined. Based on experimental study annually 20.3 million kg capacity plant was simulated using SuperPro designer. The sensitivity analysis of oil purchase cost and biodiesel selling price on ROI, payback period, IRR and NPV were investigated. The optimization and technoeconomic analysis provided a sustainable platform for commercial based biodiesel production. 

Integrated harvest of phenolic monomers and hydrogen through catalytic pyrolysis of biomass over nanocellulose derived biochar catalyst
The remarkable enhancement of phenolic monomer generation and hydrogen was achieved through catalytic pyrolysis of Douglas fir over nanocellulose derived biochar catalyst for the first time. The main compositions of produced bio-oil were phenolic monomers, furans, and naphthalenes, etc., in which the phenolic monomers were dominant compositions. And at the temperature of 650 °C and 3 of biochar to biomass ratio, the quantification results showed that the concentration of phenol was increased to 53.77 mg/mL from 15.76 mg/mL of free of biochar catalyst. The concentration of cresols were facilitated to 44.51 mg/mL from 20.95 mg/mL, while the concentration of dimethylphenols reduced to 7.76 mg/mL from 9.11 mg/mL. Up to 85.32 vol% of hydrogen was observed, increasing from 45.53 vol% of the non-catalytic process. After 15 cycles of reuse, biochar catalysts still favored to produce a much higher concentration of phenolic monomers and hydrogen than that of absence of biochar catalysts. 

Influence of Nickel molybdate nanocatalyst for enhancing biohydrogen production in microbial electrolysis cell utilizing sugar industrial effluent
Biohydrogen production in Microbial Electrolysis Cell (MEC) had inspired the researchers to overcome the challenges associated towards sustainability. Despite microbial community and various substrates, economical cathode catalyst development is most significant factor for enhancing hydrogen production in the MEC. Hence, in this study, the performance of MEC was investigated with a sugar industry effluent (COD 4200 ± 20 mg/L) with graphite anode and modified Nickel foam (NF) cathode. Nickel molybdate (NiMoO4) coated NF achieved a higher hydrogen production rate 0.12 ± 0.01 L.L−1D−1 as compared to control under favorable conditions. Electrochemical characterizations demonstrated that the improved catalytic activity of novel nanocatalyst with lower impedance favoring faster hydrogen evolution kinetics. The MEC with the novel catalyst performed with 58.2% coloumbic efficiency, 20.36% cathodic hydrogen recovery, 11.96% overall hydrogen recovery and 54.38% COD removal efficiency for a 250 mL substrate during 5 days’ batch cycle. Hence, the potentiality of modified cathode was established with the real time industrial effluent highlighting the waste to wealth bio-electrochemical technology. 

Biodiesel production via transesterification of canola oil in the presence of Na–K doped CaO derived from calcined eggshell
CaO derived from calcined eggshell was doped with Na–K by wet impregnation method and the effect of different Na/K molar ratios was investigated on biodiesel production from canola oil. The catalysts were characterized by X-ray Powder Diffraction (XRD), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX), and Thermogravimetric (TGA) analyses. FAME yields were determined by Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS). The Na–K/CaO catalyst with Na/K molar ratio of 1 showed the highest FAME yield of 97.6% at optimum reaction conditions. Structural investigation of materials revealed that FAME yield was proportional to the number of basic sites on the surface of catalyst. The optimum reaction conditions were found to be catalyst loading of 3 wt%, methanol to oil molar ratio of 9:1, reaction temperature of 50 °C, and reaction time of 3 h. 

Nano-hydroxyapatite (HAp) and hydroxyapatite/platinum (HAp/Pt) core shell nanorods: Development, structural study, and their catalytic activity
The development of a new kind of material that is a nanostructured catalytic material with an environmentally benign nature that can be used for alternative energy has acquired significance in recent years. The use of heterogeneous catalysts for the transesterification of vegetable oils has gained prominence due to their eco-friendly and reusable nature. Pure hydroxyapatite (HAp) and hydroxyapatite/platinum (HAp/Pt) nanostructured particles were prepared through a facile chemical method without templates and surfactants and their catalytic activity investigated for transesterification of natural vegetable oil to bioenergy (biodiesel). The textural and structural features of pure HAp and HAp/Pt were evaluated using FTIR and Raman spectroscopy, field emission scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The elements present in the prepared nanostructures were confirmed through energy dispersive spectroscopy and x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy techniques. The XPS analysis confirmed the metallic nature of the platinum in HAp/Pt. The specific surface area and porous nature of the prepared nanostructured catalysts were studied using the N2 physisorption Brunauer-Emmett-Teller-Barrett-Joyner-Halenda method. The catalytic activity of the pure HAp nanoparticles and HAp/Pt core shell nanorods with the Simarouba glauca plant seed oil was studied. The obtained results indicated that the pristine HAp nanoparticles and HAp/Pt core shell nanorods (NR) show 91.4% and 87.1% fatty acid methyl ester conversion, respectively, potentially offering environmental benign biocatalysts for biofuel production from natural feed stock.

Hydrothermal liquefaction of Prosopis juliflora biomass for the production of ferulic acid and bio-oil
The objective of this work was to study the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of Prosopis juliflora biomass for the production of ferulic acid and bio-oil. Biomass was processed with various solvents (NaOH, KOH, HCl and H2SO4) to produce ferulic acid (FA). FA oxidation was carried out using the Nano ZnO catalyst to produce an optimum vanillin yield of 0.3 g at 70 °C with 0.4% catalyst loading for a time of 60 min. The spent solid residue was then processed using HTL at 5 MPa pressure and a temperature range of 240–340 °C. Various biomass loading (2.5 g to 12.5 g) was taken for a fixed water content of 200 mL. Bio-oil optimum yield was 22.5 wt% for 10 g/200 mL of biomass loading ratio. The optimum temperature was 300 °C for a processing time of 1 h. The catalyst showed the reusable capability of two three consecutive cycles. 

Magnetically recoverable Mg substituted zinc ferrite nanocatalyst for biodiesel production: Process optimization, kinetic and thermodynamic analysis
The purpose of this work is to develop a magnetically recoverable magnesium substituted zinc ferrite nanocatalysts for production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil. Microwave assisted combustion process were employed to synthesis the nanocatalyst. The catalyst were characterized by XRD, FTIR, HR-SEM, EDX, DRS and VSM analysis. The VSM study revealed a relatively high magnetic moment and high saturation magnetization property useful for magnetic separation of the catalyst from the reaction medium. Biodiesel conversion of 99.9% was achieved at the optimized reaction conditions like 3 wt% of Mg2+ doped ZnFe2O4 nanocatalyst (ZnMgF5 sample), reaction temperature about 65ᵒC, methanol-oil molar ratio of 18:1 and reaction time 30 min. Investigation on the transesterification kinetics using ZnMgF5 revealed the rate constants ranging from 0.0375 min−1 to 0.2382 min−1, activation energy Eg = 52 kJ mol−1 and frequency factor A = 2.31 × 107 min−1. The negative values of entropy (ΔS°) indicates, increased randomness of the system. Thermodynamic parameters ΔG° = 87.17 kJ mol−1 at 338 K and ΔH° = 49.31 kJ mol−1 indicate that the transesterification reaction is non-spontaneous and endothermic in nature. The magnetically separated catalyst retained 94% of biodiesel yield even after ten cycles of recovery showing a very good performance. 

Multilayered Nano-Entrapment of Lipase through Organic-Inorganic Hybrid Formation and the Application in Cost-Effective Biodiesel Production
Significant components of cost-effective medium for Magnusiomyces capitatus A4C extracellular lipase (ECL) production were optimized via a five-level factorial design. A simplistic, economical, and green approach was adopted for biomimetic mineralization to prepare multilayered nano-entrapped ECL, which were then applied as biocatalysts for the production of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME). The optimal ECL (0.8 mg protein/mL) and CuSO4∙5H2O (1.2 mM) showed the highest capacity for enzyme loading. The ECL-CuSO4-hybrid showed an 89.7% conversion of triacylglycerides into FAME via transesterification and a 98.7% conversion of oleic acid into FAME via esterification at 72 h. The ECL-CuSO4-hybrid gave 65% and 78.7% FAME production after 5 successive reuses via transesterification and esterification reactions, respectively. Therefore, these ECL-inorganic hybrid biocatalysts have high economical potential to be used for the production of biodiesel as the future petrodiesel replacement., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Effect of Shorea robusta methyl ester biodiesel blends on the exergy and sustainability analysis of diesel engine
In this experimental investigation, the impact of engine load, compression ratio, and percentage blends of biofuel on exergy, energy, and sustainability parameters for the samples of diesel based (10–40% v/v) biodiesel blends were performed on variable compression ratio engine. The brake thermal efficiency, exergy efficiency, engine sustainability, exergy destruction rate, and other exergy parameters were found to escalate with the escalating engine load, compression ratio, and percentage of Shorea robusta methyl ester biodiesel fuel blends. The exergy and energy efficiency of the engine with diesel fuel were 2.05%, 6.98%, and 10.63%, respectively higher than 10%, 30%, and 40% Shorea robusta methyl ester fuel and 2.23%, 8.67%, and 9.22%, respectively at 50% engine load and 1500 rpm engine speed. The influence of compression ratio, engine load, and fuel blends on the exergetic performance parameters revealed a similar trend with energetic parameters, but the magnitude of exergy parameters was found lower than the energetic parameters. The application of Shorea robusta methyl ester biodiesel blends improved the combustion characteristics with a small drop in energy and exergy performance parameters and sustainability of the engine. The exergy destruction rate and entropy generation rate for shorea robusta methyl ester biodiesel blend were found lower than the conventional fuel. Therefore, the fuel blend have a high potential to be an alternate to the conventional fuel without any design modification of diesel engines. Taylor & Francis.

Synthesis of NiMo/La-Al2O3 powders for efficient catalytic transesterification of triglyceride with the high yield of 95.2%
Enhancement of the transesterification efficiency of triglyceride has come under heated study in biodiesel-making industry. In this research, the NiMo/La-Al2O3 nanopowders have been prepared for producing biodiesel efficiently. The screening test showed that the NiMo/La-Al2O3 catalyst has the best catalytic activity for triglyceride transesterification. Besides, the process parameters including reaction temperature, time, oil-to-alcohol ratio and catalyst loading etc., also have been investigated for optimization of the transesterification process. The results showed that with 5 wt% of catalyst loading, and oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:9, the conversion yield of triglyceride could be up to 95.2% within 120 min at 160°C. The NiMo/La-Al2O3 catalyst has the outstanding recycle property, which proved that the prepared NiMo/La-Al2O3 powders can be suitable for biodiesels’ production. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Novel heterogeneous base nanocatalysts supported on a spray dried gamma alumina applying optimized production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil
In this study, K/Fe2O3/γ-Al2O3 nanocatalyst was synthesized and used in the transesterification of waste cooking oil for biodiesel production. The effects of three operating parameters–reaction time, catalyst concentration, and methanol-to-oil molar ratio –on the biodiesel yield were studied using response surface methodology (RSM). A reduced cubic equation was established as a suitable and best-fitting model to predict the response with high accuracy. The results showed that the catalyst loading significantly affected the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield. The highest biodiesel yield of 99% was obtained under the optimal conditions of reaction time 7.84 hours, catalyst concentration 4.60 wt.%, and methanol-to-oil molar ratio 9.73. The catalyst recyclability was evaluated in two successive cycles. Different characterization methods such as XRD (X-Ray Diffraction), SEM (Scanning Electron Microscope), BET (Brunauer, Emmett and Teller), TGA (Thermogeravimetric Analysis), GC-MASS (Gas Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry) were utilized for the synthesized catalysts and final biodiesel products. The synthesized heterogeneous magnetic catalysts were easily separated from the biofuel product. This ease of catalyst separation, in comparison with homogeneous catalyst, effectively reduces industrial biofuel production costs. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Impact of multi-walled carbon nanotubes with waste fishing net oil on performance, emission and combustion characteristics of a diesel engine
In this research work, the effect of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) as additive with waste fishing net oil on performance, emission and combustion characteristics of a diesel engine were examined. Waste fishing net oil (WFNO) was obtained by pyrolysis process. The properties of WFNO revealed that oil produced from the waste fishing net can be used in a diesel engine without any engine modifications. The nano additive was characterized by Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FE-SEM) and also by Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). At a constant speed of 1500 rpm, engine performance, emission and combustion characteristics were analysed and compared with conventional diesel fuel. Engine test showed that fuel produced from the waste fishing net was able to work efficiently in a diesel engine without any engine alterations. Experimental results revealed that there was a significant improvement in combustion characteristic with the incorporation of MWCNT with WFNO. At 100% load, brake thermal efficiency was increased by 3.83% and brake specific fuel consumption was decreased by 3.87% with the addition of MWCNT to WFNO. Further, the results showed a significant reduction in engine exhaust emissions like CO, UHC, NO and smoke by 25%, 9.09% 5.25% and 14.81% respectively and a slight increase in CO2 emission by 17.39%. Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

The economic evaluation of establishing a plant for producing biodiesel from edible oil wastes in oil-rich countries: Case study Iran
In this investigation, three chemical processes for biodiesel production evaluated based on the financial standpoint. Due to its strongness and flexibility in economic evaluations, the COMFAR III software utilized for assessing processes. The alkali catalyzed process using virgin vegetable oil (process I), an-acid catalyzed process utilizing waste cooking oil (process II), and two-step supercritical methanol process using waste cooking oil (process III) considered as three deferent chemical processes and financial analyzes applied on all processes. The results of financial evaluation revealed that the process II with 2.992 million $, had the lowest manufacturing prices and with 7.541 million $ net present value would be considered as the most attractive proposal for investment. However, concerning total equipment costs of process III (1.141 million $) and its fixed investment prices (2.158 million $), this process selected as the most economically attractive process. In the next step, to evaluate the impacts of increased sales revenue, reduction in fixed assets, and operating costs on net present value, a sensitivity analysis was carried out. Sensitivity evaluation revealed that alteration in operating costs significantly impacts the net present value, and this significant change is more tangible in the process III. 

Selective production of ethyl levulinate from levulinic acid by lipase-immobilized mesoporous silica nanoflowers composite
Mesoporous silica nanoflowers bearing -NH2 groups were synthesized by the hydrolysis of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) with reverse microemulsion method, following with the grafting of -NH2 groups by the post modification with (3-Aminopropyl) trimethoxysilane (APTMS). The lipase from C. antarctica was immobilized on the as-synthesized amino-grafted mesoporous silica nanoflowers to fabricate the lipase-immobilized mesoporous silica nanoflowers composite, which was applied for the catalytic transformation of biomass-derived levulinic acid to biofuel ethyl levulinate (EL), and exhibited excellent catalytic activity. An ethyl levulinate yield as high as 99.5% could be achieved at 40 °C in 8 h reaction time, which was much higher than that catalyzed by the free lipase (67.9%) under the identical conditions. The immobilized lipase showed good stability and recyclability that ethyl levulinate yields above 68% could be remained after seven recycle times. This work represents a novel strategy to construct the immobilized biocatalyst for the production of bio-based chemicals. Elsevier B.V.

Highly selective aromatic ring hydrogenation of lignin-derived compounds over macroporous Ru/Nb2O5 with the lost acidity at room temperature
Selective aromatic ring hydrogenation is an important process for the valorization of lignin and designing the high active and selective catalyst is still a challenge. At present, it is reported that such catalysts generally have some shortcomings including strict reaction conditions, complicated catalyst preparation and low reaction efficiency. Herein, Ru/Nb2O5 catalyst with the macropore structure prepared by an incipient wetness impregnation method could effectively promote the aromatic rings hydrogenation of various lignin-derived compounds under extremely mild condition (30 °C). The resulting aliphatic compounds with the high yield provided abundant raw materials for the production of fine chemicals and biofuels. In this case, further experiments revealed that it was H2 rather than solvents provided the only hydrogen source. A relatively low bond energy of Ru0 in Ru/Nb2O5 promoted the formation of active hydrogen from H2. Due to the acid loss of Ru/Nb2O5 catalyst, the hydrodeoxygenation reaction did not occur. Moreover, the catalyst was investigated under different influence parameters in order to obtain the optimal reaction conditions (30 °C, 3 MPa H2). The application of Ru/Nb2O5 catalyst may provide a promising approach to the value-added utilization of lignin-derived fragments. 

Catalytic enhancement of calcium oxide from green mussel shell by potassium chloride impregnation for waste cooking oil-based biodiesel production
This work investigates the optimization of fatty acid ethyl ester (FAEE, biodiesel) production from waste cooking oil (WCO) via the transesterification with ethanol (EtOH) under calcium oxide catalyst from green mussel shell impregnated with potassium chloride (KCl). The green mussel shell is calcined at 900 °C for 5 h, grounded into powder prior to immersion into KCl solution, and characterized by an attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared (ATR/FT-IR) spectrophotometer and X-ray diffraction (XRD) before using as a catalyst. The catalytic performances are evaluated via WCO-EtOH transesterification and optimized for production parameters. The maximum yield of FAEE is 97% w/w from the following optimum conditions: catalyst ratio of 4.0% w/w, EtOH-to-WCO molar ratio of 10:1 at 80 °C in 3 h. This work benefits on value-added raw materials, such as green mussel shell and WCO, which can be renewed for energy. 

Catalytic capability of phosphotungstic acid supported on bamboo activated carbon in esterification for biodiesel production with density functional theory
A series of heterogeneous acid catalysts are synthesized by supporting phosphotungstic acid on bamboo activated carbon and applied in catalyzing esterification for biodiesel production. With the activation of phosphoric acid, the obtained catalyst possesses the total acid density of 2.02 mmol g−1 and developed pore structure with specific surface area of 576 m2 g−1. It exhibits superior performance in catalyzing esterification of oleic acid with the maximum efficiency of 96% and acceptable renewability, where efficiency of 93% could be achieved by the regenerated catalyst. Density functional theory results indicate the activation barrier and reaction energy of the esterification are 19.73 kcal mol-1 and −15.83 kcal mol-1, respectively. This paper provides feasibility of the high value-added utilization of bamboo and basic theoretical data for esterification mechanism over heterogeneous acid catalysts. 

Highly ordered mesoporous functionalized pyridinium protic ionic liquids framework as efficient system in esterification reactions for biofuels production
Polysiloxane acidic ionic liquids containing pyridinium trifluoroacetate salts (PMO-Py-IL) were synthesized from pyridine containing organosilane precursors. Characterization by SEM, XRD, TGA, and nitrogen porosimetry confirmed that both pyridinium cation and trifluoroacetate anion were successfully incorporated within the organosilica network. The resulting organic-inorganic hybrid nanomaterial (PMO-Py-IL) was studied as nanocatalyst in free fatty acids esterification into biodiesel-like compounds. Remarkably, the synergistic hydrophilic/hydrophobic effect of pyridinium and trifluoroacetate ionic liquid in the well-ordered channels of PMO-Py-IL nanomaterial enhanced the activity toward sustainable biodiesel-like esters production. More importantly, PMO-Py-IL nanocatalyst also exhibited an exceptional activity and stability. The catalyst could be easily separated to reuse at least in ten reactions runs preserving almost intact its catalytic activity under otherwise identical conditions to those employed for the fresh catalysts.

Zinc oxide nanoparticles synthesized using Fusarium oxysporum to enhance bioethanol production from rice-straw
The present study emphasized on ethanol production using biologically synthesized ZnO nanoparticles as a catalyst. Fusarium oxysporum has been shown to have a high zinc metal tolerance ability and a potential for extracellular synthesis of ZnO nanoparticles. The purity and quality of synthesized nanoparticles were confirmed by various characterization methods such as UV–Vis spectroscopy, FTIR, XRD, SEM, TGA and DTA analysis. Primarily, for bioethanol production the rice straw was subjected to delignification by ammonia. Enzymes required for further degradation of lignocellulosic biomass of rice straw into monosaccharide sugars was produced using fungus Fusarium oxysporum. These sugars were then converted into ethanol via fermentation under micro-aerobic conditions. Ethanol yield was enhanced by using zinc oxide nanoparticles in certain concentration range during fermentation. Maximum ethanol yield of 0.0359 g/g of dry weight based plant biomass was obtained at 200 mg/L concentration of ZnO nanoparticles. Here, we summarizes the synthesis and recent advances of ZnO nanoparticles in bioethanol production which in turn will be used in various industrial applications, pharmaceutical sector and also as a bio-fuel. 

Synthesis of bio-oil from waste Trichosanthes cucumerina seeds: a substitute for conventional fuel
The present study explores the methodology for the synthesis of bio-oil from waste trichosanthes cucumerina seeds by the solvent extraction method. It investigates the yield percentage, concentration of free fatty acids and acid contents in the extracted bio-oil. Effects of size of the crushed seeds, moisture content, extraction time, solvent to seed ratio and extraction temperatures were examined. The non-polar hexane solvent resulted in a higher percentage of oil yield (28.4 ± 0.4%) for the crushed seed size of 0.21 mm, 6% moisture content, 270 min extraction time, 68 °C temperature and 6:1(ml/g) of solvent to seed ratio. The synthesized bio-oil was characterized using Fourier Transform Infra-Red spectrum and Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectroscopy analysis. The properties of the bio-oil and biodiesel were assessed according to the American Society for Testing and Materials and the Association of Official Analytical Chemists standards. The obtained methyl-ester by trans-esterification process results in the fuel properties closer to the conventional fuel. Thus, Trichosanthes cucumerina bio-diesel can be used as a potential substitute., The Author(s).

Extraction of microalgal oil from Nannochloropsis oceanica by potassium hydroxide-assisted solvent extraction for heterogeneous transesterification
The feasibility of potassium hydroxide for simultaneous removal of chlorophyll during solvent extraction from wet microalgae (200 g/L) was evaluated. Extracted oil was converted to biodiesel by ZSM-5-based heterogeneous catalysts. The total oil (fatty acid-based) content of Nannochlorposis oceanica cultivated in open raceway ponds was 19.5%. The oil recovery yields from dry and wet microalgae using hexane were 44.4 and 11.8%, respectively, whereas using a hexane-methanol mixture were increased to 79.3 and 74.8%, respectively. For the heterogeneous transesterification of microalgal oil extracted by the hexane-methanol mixture from wet microalgae, the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) contents were 2.3, 48.3, and 4.7% of product recovered after reaction for ZSM-5, Na/ZSM-5, and SO42−/ZSM-5, respectively; by the potassium hydroxide-assisted process, the corresponding FAME contents were increased to 21.9, 86.2, and 86.0%, respectively, due to improvement of the oil properties by the decrease of the chlorophyll content. Through the addition of potassium hydroxide, chlorophyll was effectively removed from oil, and eventually, the biodiesel conversion was sharply increased with heterogeneous Na/ZSM-5 and SO42−/ZSM-5 catalysts. 

Biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using a novel heterogeneous catalyst based on graphene oxide doped metal oxide nanoparticles
Waste cooking oil (WCO) is a potential and low-cost source for biodiesel production which has been used widely. In this study, novel nanocatalyst (GO@ZrO2–SrO) was synthesized via co-precipitation method by the combination of both potential graphene oxide and bimetal zirconium/strontium oxide nanoparticles. The proposed nanocomposite showed a promising ability as a heterogeneous catalyst for the transesterification of WCO to produce FAMEs as biodiesel. The FTIR, SEM/EDX and XRD were used for the characterization of nanocatalyst to evaluate the surface functional groups, nanostructure/elements and crystallinity, respectively. The effective parameters on the transesterification FAMEs yield including oil to alcohol ratio, reaction time, and reaction temperature were studied. Based on the results, the maximum FAMEs yield of 91% was obtained in the conditions of the material ratio of 1:0.5 (w/w) of GO:ZrO2–SrO, oil to methanol ratio (1:4), the reaction time of 90 min and the temperature of 120 °C. Therefore, this study showed that GO@ZrO2–SrO can be used as an alternative potential heterogeneous catalyst to produce biodiesel from WCO. 

Fly ash as a new versatile acid-base catalyst for biodiesel production
The production of fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) from waste frying oil (WFO) was studied using fly ash as received as a heterogeneous catalyst. The fly ash used in this research had a high content of both CaO and SO3, two compounds that have been previously proposed as catalysts in FAME production. The study was carried out on the basis of a response surface methodology (RSM). The model generated by RSM predicted as optimal conditions to obtain a 100% FAME yield at a methanol-to-oil molar ratio of 3.1:1, 11.2 (wt.% based on oil weight) fly ash and a temperature of 59 °C with agitation at 245 rpm and 6 h of reaction time. Additional experiments comparing anhydrous with aqueous medium showed that fly ash presented a high catalytic capacity to transform free fatty acids (FFA) into FAME through consecutive hydrolysis and esterification processes (hydroesterification) compared with that associated with the transesterification mechanism. According to the results, the fly ash used in this study would act as a multipurpose or “versatile” catalyst due to its chemical composition with constituents that act as acidic and basic catalysts, therefore, catalyzing the transesterification and hydroesterification reactions simultaneously and increasing the conversion yields of FAME. 

Magnetic biochar derived from waste palm kernel shell for biodiesel production via sulfonation
Due to its environment-friendly and replenishable characteristics, biodiesel has the potential to substitute fossil fuels as an alternative source of energy. Although biodiesel has many benefits to offer, manufacturing biodiesel on an industrial scale is uneconomical as a high cost of feedstock is required. A novel sulfonated and magnetic catalyst synthesised from a palm kernel shell (PMB-SO3H) was first introduced in this study for methyl ester or biodiesel production to reduce capital costs. The wasted palm kernel shell (PKS) biochar impregnated with ferrite Fe3O4 was synthesised with concentrated sulphuric acid through the sulfonation process. The SEM, EDX, FTIR, VSM and TGA characterization of the catalysts were presented. Then, the optimisation of biodiesel synthesis was catalysed by PMB-SO3H via the Response Surface Methodology (RSM). It was found that the maximum biodiesel yield of 90.2% was achieved under these optimum operating conditions: 65 °C, 102 min, methanol to oil ratio of 13:1 and the catalyst loading of 3.66 wt%. Overall, PMB-SO3H demonstrated acceptable catalysing capability on its first cycle, which subsequently showed a reduction of the reusability performance after 4 cycles. An important practical implication is that PMB-SO3H can be established as a promising heterogeneous catalyst by incorporating an iron layer which can substantially improve the catalyst separation performance in biodiesel production.

Sulfonated porous biomass-derived carbon with superior recyclability for synthesizing ethyl levulinate biofuel
The synthesis of ethyl levulinate (EL) via esterification of levulinic acid (LA) with ethanol, which can be derived from biomass, has become an attractive topic since EL can be applied in many fields, such as fuel additives for petroleum and biodiesel, food additives and fragrance. Herein, the sulfonated porous carbon catalysts derived from the rinds of corn stalk biomass wastes were prepared by using sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid as the sulfonating agent and activator, respectively. The preparation parameters were optimized based on the catalytic activity for LA esterification with ethanol and the acid density of the corresponding catalysts. Also, various reaction factors were optimized to improve the catalytic efficiency over the optimal sulfonated corn stalk-derived carbon (s-CSC). Under the conditions of reaction temperature 80 °C, catalyst dosage 5 wt%, ethanol-to-LA molar ratio 5.0:1 and reaction time 8 h, the LA conversion reached 94% and 93% catalyzed by s-CSC and the optimal porous catalyst (s-p-CSC), respectively. Noticeably, benefitting from the hierarchical porous structure with large surface area, s-p-CSC exhibited much better recyclability than s-CSC. This work offers a highly effective solid acid catalyst for the synthesis of biofuel., Springer Nature B.V.

Study on the bio-oil characterization and heavy metals distribution during the aqueous phase recycling in the hydrothermal liquefaction of As-enriched Pteris vittata L.
The hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of As enriched Pteris vittata L. (PVL, hyper-accumulator biomass) was performed with the recycled aqueous phase as reaction medium, aiming to dispose the biomass with high water content and produce high-quality bio-oil. After three times of aqueous phase recycling at 275 °C, 30 min, the bio-oil yield increased to 30.32% from 21.54% and the higher heating value (HHV, 28.51 MJ/kg) of the bio-oil was higher than that of the bio-oil from HTL with pure water (26.80 MJ/kg). The main compounds detected in bio-oils were phenols, ketones, hydrocarbons, and aldehydes. Acetic acid (17.21–24.77 mg/mL) was dominant in the aqueous phases, resulting in the low pH (4.31–4.89). The heavy metals (Cu, Pb, Zn, Cd) mainly remained in bio-char whereas As was transferred to aqueous phase. Thus, HTL by aqueous phase recycling could be a promising way for PVL treatment to obtain high-quality bio-oil and arsenic recovery. 

Cobalt-doped CaO catalyst synthesized and applied for algal biodiesel production
Microalgal biomass is a potential feedstock for biofuel production because of its oleaginous nature and fast growth rate. Furthermore, its cultivation does not compete with crop producing land and thereby eliminating food vs. fuel dilemma. This study describes a low-cost nutrient mediated cultivation method for growing lipid enriched algal biomass from Scenedesmus quadricauda in BG11 media in a raceway pond. A renewable heterogeneous catalyst is synthesized using calcium oxide obtained from calcination of waste egg shells and modified using cobalt nitrate hexahydrate by co-precipitation method. The synthesized catalyst is characterized by XRD, SEM, EDX, FTIR, TEM techniques. Lipid extracted from the biomass is converted to biodiesel using the synthesized catalyst. The formation of biodiesel is confirmed using 1H NMR, 13C NMR and GC-MS techniques. The result demonstrated that the CaO–Co catalyst has very high catalytic activity for biodiesel production. The integrated process described in this study has potential for producing environmentally benign fuels and a heterogeneous catalyst from renewable sources. 

Candida rugosa lipase for the biodiesel production from renewable sources
Lipase from Candida rugosa was physically attached to Mg modified Fe2O4 nanoparticles (NPs) and employed for the conversion of brewers’ spent grains (BSGs) into biodiesel, in the presence of methanol. The proposed strategy explored the direct immobilization of the enzyme on the as-prepared oleic acid modified inexpensive NPs. In addition, a large amount of enzyme was bound on the NPs, allowing their efficient recycling by using an external magnet. A very remarkable better yield of 98% was achieved at 1:4 oil/methanol molar ratio after 48 h at 45 °C reaction temperature. The nanocatalyst also exhibits good recyclability. The biodiesel produced was analyzed according to EN 14214. 

Taming waste: Waste Mangifera indica peel as a sustainable catalyst for biodiesel production at room temperature
In the present study, the efficacy of waste peels of mango (Mangifera indica) as a basic catalyst in room temperature transesterification reaction is investigated for biodiesel production from soybean oil. Biowaste based catalyst, Mangifera indica peel ash, was prepared by conventional open air burning of the mango peel. The morphology and chemical components of the catalyst are investigated using several techniques such as X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) and Hammett indicator method. The highest biodiesel yield of 98% was attained under the optimized reaction conditions; methanol to oil ration of 6:1, catalyst loading of 6 wt %, and time of 4 h under room temperature. Crucially, the catalyst retained its activity up to 4th cycle of reused. The excellent catalytic activity of the ash catalyst could be attributed to the presence of highly basic metal oxides such as K2O, MgO and CaO, its high surface area and porous nature. 

Facile Construction of Synergistic β-Glucosidase and Cellulase Sequential Co-immobilization System for Enhanced Biomass Conversion
Converting renewable cellulose into glucose via cellulase catalysis for further production of biofuel has been recognized as one of the most promising ways for solving energy crisis. However, the hydrolysis performance of immobilized cellulase was not satisfactory for practical application due to the reduced catalytic efficiency and lack of β-glucosidase (BG) component in cellulase. Here, a facile method was developed to sequentially co-immobilize BG and cellulase by polymeric microparticles with hierarchical structure. In this strategy, BG was firstly entrapped into the cross-linked poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) microparticles via inverse emulsion polymerization initiated by isopropyl thioxanthone (ITX) under the irradiation of visible light, leaving the formed ITX semi-pinacol (ITXSP) dormant groups on surface of BG-loaded microparticles, which could be further activated by visible light irradiation and initiated a graft polymerization to introduce poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) brush on the PEG core. After that, cellulase was covalently bonded on the PAA chains via carbodiimide reaction. The synergic effect of BG and cellulase was verified in the dual enzyme immobilization system, which led to a better stability at a wide range of temperature and pH than free enzymes. The dual enzymes system exhibited excellent reusability, which could retain 75% and 57% of the initial activity after 10 cycles of hydrolysis of carboxyl methyl cellulose and 5 cycles of hydrolysis of filter paper, respectively, indicative of the potential in biofuel areas in a cost-effective manner., Chinese Chemical Society Institute of Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Green synthesis of ZnO nanoparticles decorated on polyindole functionalized-MCNTs and used as anode material for enzymatic biofuel cell applications
Presently, one of the most important aspects for the development of enzymatic biofuel cells (EBFCs) is to synthesize the novel electrode materials that possess high current density, low open-circuit voltage (OCV) and long-term stability. To achieve the above attributes, lots of new strategies are being used by the researchers for the development of advanced materials. Nowadays, nanomaterials and nanocomposites are the promising material that has been utilized as effective electrode material in solar cells, supercapacitors and biofuel cells application. Herein, we account for a novel electrocatalyst as electrode material that comprised ZnO nanoparticles decorated on the surface of polyindole (PIn)-multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT), for the immobilization of glucose oxidase (GOx) enzyme and mediator (Ferritin). The PIn-MWCNT scaffold is prepared via in situ chemical oxidative polymerization of indole on the surface of MWCNT and assessed by myriad techniques. The micrograph of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) designated the interconnected morphology of MWCNTs in the polymer matrix. X-ray diffraction spectroscopy (XRD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), confirm the crystallinity and different functional groups available in the synthesized material, respectively. The electrochemical assessment demonstrates that the ZnO/PIn-MWCNT/Frt/GOx nanobiocatalyst exhibits much higher electrocatalytic activity towards the oxidation of glucose with a maximum current density of 4.9 mA cm−2 by consuming 50 mM glucose concentration in phosphate buffer saline (PBS) (pH 7.4) as the testing solution by applying 100 mVs−1 scan rates. The outcomes reflect that the as-prepared ZnO/PIn-MWCNTs/Frt/GOx biocomposite is a promising bioanode for the development of EBFCs., The Author(s).

Exergy analysis and nanoparticle assessment of cooking oil biodiesel and standard diesel fueled internal combustion engine
In this paper, the exergy analysis and environmental assessment are performed to the biodiesel and diesel-fueled engine at full 294 Nm and 1800 r/min. The exergy loss rates of fuels are found as 15.523 and 18.884 kW for the 100% biodiesel (BDF100) (obtained from cooking oil) and Japanese Industrial Standard Diesel No. 2 (JIS#2) fuels, respectively. In addition, the exergy destruction rate of the JIS#2 fuel is found as 80.670 kW, while the corresponding rate of the BDF100 is determined as 62.389 kW. According to environmental assessments of emissions and nanoparticles of the fuels, the biodiesel (BDF100) fuel is more environmentally benign than the diesel (JIS#2) fuel in terms of particle concentration and carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions. So, it is better to use this kind of the 100% biodiesels in the diesel engines for better environment and efficiency in terms of the availability and environmental perspectives. The Author(s) 2019.

Renewable diesel via solventless and hydrogen-free catalytic deoxygenation of palm fatty acid distillate
This work involved the utilization of a byproduct from the palm oil refining process as reaction feedstock in a solventless and hydrogen-free catalytic deoxygenation (DO) over NiO–ZnO catalyst in producing diesel-like hydrocarbons as advanced biofuels. The catalyst supporter was synthesized using coprecipitation methods to form highly crystalline meso-macrostructured ZnO particles. The catalyst support was wet-impregnated with different loadings (wt %) of NiO to prepare the NiO–ZnO catalyst. X-ray diffraction patterns verified the persistence of good crystallinity and phase purity of the support, with fine NiO crystallites of size 14–22 nm. Synthesized NiO–ZnO catalysts demonstrated Type IV isotherm with H3 hysteresis loop with mesoporous-macroporous properties. The Brønsted and Lewis acidic sites of NiO–ZnO offer a synergy effect between the active site and catalyst supporter. Both N2 adsorption isotherm and electron microscopy analysis revealed the increase of the crystallite size of the catalyst by increase the NiO loadings. The catalytic activity of the NiO–ZnO catalyst was tested in a semi-batch reactor at 350 °C for 2 h in N2 atmospheric. The oxygenated compounds of palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) have been successfully removed to form linear hydrocarbons as green diesel compounds. The synergistic effect between NiO and ZnO significantly enhanced the catalytic activity for substrate DO. The hydrocarbons product yield reached 83.4%, with a diesel range (C11–C17) selectivity of 86.0%. The green diesel, which contains diesel-range hydrocarbons, is suitable as an alternative fuel product for vehicle engine usage. It is possible to be upscaled and compatible with the existed petrochemical refinery facilities. Hence, this is a promising work could be an economic potential and give value added to the palm oil byproduct sectors. 

Microwave combustion vs. conventional fabrication of high active and reusable magnesium ferrite nanostructure for transformation of sunflower oil to green fuel
In the current research, MgO/MFS nanocatalyst was used in the transesterification process to produce green fuel from vegetable oil. The effect of various synthesis methods such as precipitation, hydrothermal, conventional combustion, and microwave combustion on the magnesium ferrite nanostructure support was investigated. MgO active phase was then impregnated on the support. Synthesized nanocatalysts were characterized by BET-BJH, FTIR, XRD FESEM, and EDX-Dot mapping techniques, and the best performance was staged by the combustion method while the microwave synthesized sample is slightly more active. This catalyst had fine pore size distribution, sheet-like morphology, appropriate roughness (4.6 nm) in the range of 500 nm, and the highest specific surface area (140 m2/g), which 95.4 % of sunflower seed oil was converted to FAMEs. This nanocatalyst was also more stable in the successive reaction conditions than the conventionally combustion synthesized sample which shows the superiority of this heating method in combustion synthesis. Elsevier B.V.

Transesterification of sunflower oil to biodiesel fuel utilizing a novel K2CO3/Talc catalyst: Process optimizations and kinetics investigations
A novel efficient and cost-effective heterogeneous catalyst for the production of biodiesel from transesterification of sunflower oil was prepared through the impregnation of K2CO3 upon the Talc material. The physicochemical features of the catalyst were studied through several characterization analyses. The effect of the K2CO3 loading was investigated by comparing the catalytic activity of various prepared catalysts. Moreover, the effect of the calcination temperature upon the catalytic activity was examined. To maximize the yield of the produced biodiesel fuel, reaction variables such as the reaction time and temperature, catalyst concentration, and methanol: oil molar ratio were optimized. Additionally, the kinetics of the reaction was understudied. Results revealed that the catalyst with 40 wt.% of K2CO3 calcined at 823 K possessed the highest catalytic activity. That is the biodiesel production yield of 98.4 %. Moreover, the kinetic parameters of the reaction rate constant of 0.01558 min−1, Eact of 62.4 kJ/mol, and Eyring-Polanyi's ΔH and ΔS of 59.7 kJ/mol and -103.7 J/(mol K), respectively were obtained for this material. These were revealed under the optimum reaction condition of the catalyst reactor loading of 4 wt.% as well as the methanol: oil molar ratio of 6:1 operated at 338 K. Furthermore, the optimized catalyst was demonstrated to successfully withstand the aforementioned optimum criteria up to five consecutive reaction cycles while experiencing a negligible loss of about 8% of its activity. Elsevier B.V.

Removal of nitrogen-containing compounds from microalgae derived biofuel by adsorption over functionalized metal organic frameworks
Considering the depletion of fossil fuel, alternative energy resources have been continuously investigated. Microalgae-derived biofuel can be a solution to replace traditional fuel; however, biofuel contains much nitrogen-containing compounds (NCCs) such as carbazole (CBZ) and benzonitrile (PhCN). In this work, effective denitrogenation of biofuel was investigated by using MOFs, especially having multi-functional groups and high porosity. MIL-101-NH2 was modified with oxalyl chloride (OC) to have a MOF called M101-OC. The M101-OC showed remarkable performance in adsorptive denitrogenation from biofuel. Or, M101-OC had 3.8- and 19.6-times adsorption capacity for CBZ and PhCN that of activated carbon, respectively; and showed the highest adsorption capacity, compared with any known adsorbent. The noticeable performances of M101-OC could be explained with hydrogen bonding due to ample hydrogen donor and hydrogen acceptor sites on the M101-OC. Finally, the investigated MOF was also easily recycled via simple ethanol washing. Therefore, M101-OC might be a promising adsorbent for the purification of microalgae-derived biofuel having much NCCs. 

Analysis of the effect of temperature on the morphology of egg shell calcium oxide catalyst: Catalyst production for biodiesel preparation
The increasing number of studies on the usage of egg-shell-derived Calcium Oxide (CaO) as a catalyst for biodiesel production highlights the need to investigate the effects of temperature on the calcination of egg shells. To this end, the present study investigates the calcination of chicken and duck egg shells exposed to different temperatures of 800°C, 900°C, and 1000°C for one hour. The synthesized CaO was characterized by X-Ray Diffraction (XRD), Fourier-Transform Infrared spectrometry (FT-IR), Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM), and Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX). This study showed that there were changes in the distribution and formation of calcium, oxides, and the naturally occurring substance carbon during calcination of the samples. It was observed in both chicken and duck egg shells that 800°C was a decent temperature for calcinating egg shells to produce calcium oxide catalyst. Sharif University of Technology. All rights reserved.

Liquid lipase-mediated production of biodiesel from agroindustrial waste
Decreasing in fossil fuel reserves and its adverse environmental effects motivate the development of the biofuels production, such as biodiesel. Animal fats residues, generated by agro-processing industries in large quantities, can be considered a low-cost raw material for conversion to alkyl esters (biodiesel). This study aims to evaluate the production of biodiesel (fatty acid methyl esters – FAME) from enzymatic catalysis applying the novel commercial lipase in liquid formulation NS-40116 obtained from the modified Thermomyces lanuginosus microorganism, using residual chicken oil as feedstock. The reaction parameters “oil to methanol molar ratio”, “water content” and “temperature” were investigated through a statistical design. At 200 rpm during 36 h, enzymatic catalysis (0.3 wt% of lipase to residual chicken oil) presented the most appropriate condition at 35 °C, 2 wt% of water content and oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:4, yielding 93.16% in FAME. Therefore, the recovery of that waste was satisfactorily performed in feasible conditions, producing a less environment-harmful biofuel. 

Increasing dimethyl ether production from biomass-derived syngas: via sorption enhanced dimethyl ether synthesis
The direct synthesis of dimethyl ether (DME) from biomass-derived syngas is a topic of great interest in the field of biofuels. The process takes place in one reactor combining two catalytic functions, Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 (CZA) for the synthesis of methanol and an acid catalyst (typically γ-Al2O3) for methanol dehydration to DME. However, the catalytic performance of those catalysts is negatively affected by the high CO2/CO ratio in the bio-syngas, resulting in low methanol and DME production rates. In this work, we show that promoters such as zirconium and gallium oxides increase the CO fraction in the syngas. However, the production of H2O is also increased, leading to the deactivation of both CZA and γ-Al2O3. The addition of a water sorbent (zeolite 3A) in the reaction medium alleviates the detrimental effect of H2O in the direct synthesis of DME from CO2-rich syngas. Thus, DME production over the CZA/γ-Al2O3 catalytic bed increases from ca. 8.7% to 70% when a zeolite 3A is placed in the reaction medium. In fact, carbon conversions higher than conventional equilibrium conversions are achieved. This work demonstrates that the sorption enhanced synthesis of DME is a suitable strategy to increase DME production from biomass-derived syngas. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Exhaust emissions and engine performance analysis of a marine diesel engine fuelledwith Parinari polyandra biodiesel–diesel blends
The sustainability of biodiesel adoption in diesel engines are dependent on its environmental friendliness relative to lower pollutant emissions. Biodiesel was produced from extracted Parinari polyandra oil via alkali catalyzed methanolysis. Performance and emission analysis of a diesel engine was conducted on a diesel engine, operated under different operating conditions, using varied Parinari polyandra biodiesel blends. Exhaust emissions, like total hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides were measured. The biodiesel properties were found to be similar to fossil diesel. B10 was found to be the optimal blend in improving the engine performance in terms of speed, power and thermal efficiency. B30 demonstrated stable performance characteristics without any modification of the diesel engine. The exhaust emissions from biodiesel blends combustion were found to be lower than that of diesel, except nitrogen oxides. High percentage reduction of greenhouse gases, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, was recorded at 81.7% and 65.7%, respectively. The utilization of Parinari polyandra biodiesel for engine application was found to be a viable means of heightening adoption of sustainable biofuels and minimizing pollutant emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels. The Author(s)

Catalytic etherification of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural into 5-ethoxymethyfurfural over sulfated bimetallic SO42−/Al-Zr/KIT-6, a Lewis/Brønsted acid hybrid catalyst
A series of mesoporous composites of SO42−/Al-Zr/KIT-6, with varied ratios of ZrO2 to Al2O3 and degrees of sulfation have been synthesized as an efficient, clean, facile and environmental-friendly nano-catalyst for the selective etherification of biomass-derived 5 hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to produce 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) as a biofuel candidate in a one pot process. Structure/property relationships of the catalyst have been determined and optimized in terms of EMF yield and HMF conversion. The resulting catalyst has been further tuned through tailored reaction conditions to produce an EMF yield of 89.8 % and HMF conversion of 99 %. Elsevier B.V.

Synthesis and characterization of carbon nanotubes from engine soot and its application as an additive in Schizochytrium biodiesel fuelled DICI engine
The present work investigated the synthesis of carbon nanotubes from engine soot particles by laser ablation vaporization method. The synthesized carbon nanotubes were characterized structurally by X-ray Diffraction, Scanning Electron Microscopy, Raman Spectroscopy and Thermogravimetry Analysis. Further, the effects of adding carbon nanotubes in to Schizochytrium methyl ester-diesel blended fuel (20% by volume Schizochytrium methyl ester + 80% diesel and 40% by volume Schizochytrium methyl ester + 60% diesel; symbolized by SCME 20 and SCME 40 respectively) were investigated on the performance, combustion and emission characteristics of direct injection diesel engine. The carbon nanotubes were mixed ultrasonically at two concentrations of 25 and 50 ppm in SCME 20 and SCME 40 individually. All blends were investigated under different engine loading conditions and their results reported that by adding carbon nanotubes at 25–50 ppm of SCME 20 increased the brake thermal efficiency by 2.5% and decreased the brake specific fuel consumption by 3.2% when compared to the neat SCME 20 blend. The maximum heat release rate and peak in-cylinder pressure were found increased by 5% and 4%, respectively. More specifically, the engine exhaust emissions such as UHC, CO, NOx and smoke found reduced by 14.28%, 23.07%, 5% and 21.52% respectively, at a concentrations of 50 ppm in SCME20 blends. The result showed that the concentrations of 50 ppm in SCME20 possess the optimum enhancement in the performance and emissions of the DICI engine. The Authors

Bilirubin oxidase oriented on novel type three-dimensional biocathodes with reduced graphene aggregation for biocathode
Aggregation of reduced graphene oxide (RGO) due to π-π stacking is a recurrent problem in graphene-based electrochemistry, decreasing the effective working area and therefore the performance of the RGO electrodes. Dispersing RGO on three-dimensional (3D) carbon paper electrodes is one strategy towards overcoming this challenge, with partial relief aggregation. In this report, we describe the grafting of negatively charged 4-aminobenzoic acid (4-ABA) onto a graphene functionalized carbon paper electrode surface. 4-ABA functionalization induces separation of the RGO layers, at the same time leading to favorable orientation of the blue multi-copper enzyme Myrothecium verrucaria bilirubin oxidase (MvBOD) for direct electron transfer (DET) in the dioxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at neutral pH. Simultaneous electroreduction of graphene oxide to RGO and covalent attachment of 4-ABA are achieved by applying alternating cathodic and anodic electrochemical potential pulses, leading to a high catalytic current density (Δjcat:193 ± 4 μA cm−2) under static conditions. Electrochemically grafted 4-ABA not only leads to a favorable orientation of BOD as validated by fitting a kinetic model to the electrocatalytic data, but also acts to alleviate RGO aggregation as disclosed by scanning electron microscopy, most likely due to the electrostatic repulsion between 4-ABA-grafted graphene layers. With a half-lifetime of 55 h, the bioelectrode also shows the highest operational stability for DET-type MvBOD-based bioelectrodes reported to date. The bioelectrode was finally shown to work well as a biocathode of a membrane-less glucose/O2 enzymatic biofuel cell with a maximum power density of 22 μW cm−2 and an open circuit voltage of 0.51 V. Elsevier B.V.

Hydrothermal liquefaction of Chlorella pyrenoidosa and effect of emulsification on upgrading the bio-oil
This work studied the hydrothermal liquefaction of Chlorella pyrenoidosa and effect of emulsification on upgrading the bio-oil. The fuel properties and storage stability characteristics of emulsion fuels were explored. The combustion characteristic analysis showed that the ignition temperatures of emulsion fuels (139.6–151.3 °C) were lower than that of bio-oil (176.9 °C). Besides, emulsion fuels had higher comprehensive combustion indexes (7.24–14.08 × 10−6 × min−2 × C−3) than bio-oil (1.51 × 10−6 × min−2 × C−3), indicating that emulsion fuels had better combustion performance. The kinetic analysis showed that emulsification could effectively reduce the activation energy, resulting in less energy input for combustion. Based on chemical composition evolution during the storage process, a possible stability mechanism was proposed. The storage stability analysis indicated that the diesel-solvable fractions in bio-oil had better stability. Overall, this work provides a feasible way for bio-oil upgrading through emulsification. In addition, a better understanding of the stability property of emulsion fuel was provided. 

Optimization and techno-economic analysis of biodiesel production from Calophyllum inophyllum oil using heterogeneous nanocatalyst
The present research work is aimed at reducing the consumption of reactants by process optimization and economic analysis of large-scale commercial plant using techno-economic analysis. The statistical optimization of biodiesel production from Calophyllum inophyllum oil using Zn doped CaO nanocatalyst was used to optimize the conversion efficiency and green chemistry value. The environmental studies on transesterification reaction were done using green chemistry parameters like carbon efficiency, atom economy, reaction mass efficiency, stoichiometric factor and environmental factor. The biodiesel conversion 91.95% was achieved when maintaining the methanol to oil ratio 9.66:1, concentration of catalyst 5% (w/v), time 81.31 min and temperature 56.71 °C with green chemistry value of 0.873. Techno-economic analysis of biodiesel production from Calophyllum inophyllum oil was executed used optimized lab-scale data. The techno-economic analysis of 21 million kg/year biodiesel production plant was investigated. The annual biodiesel revenue of 15,224,000 $/yr and the payback period was about 1.15 years. 

A novel α-Fe2O3/AlOOH(γ-Al2O3) nanocatalyst for efficient biodiesel production from waste oil: Kinetic and thermal studies
Different α-Fe2O3 loading (4–12 wt%) doped nanowires AlOOH/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are synthesized using a deposition hydrothermal technique and thoroughly characterized using XRD, SAED-TEM, FTIR, UV–Vis, N2 sorptiometry and XPS measurements. The 12 wt% α-Fe2O3/AlOOH(γ-Al2O3) catalyst presented the highest fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) Yield that comprised of 100% for virgin oil and 94.3% for the waste one, all performed under mild optimized conditions (60 °C, methanol to oil molar ratio = 6:1, 3 wt% catalyst, reaction rate 600 rpm and within 3 h reaction time). It also shows high recyclability without significant loss in activity because of the superior large surface area (323.3 m2/g), high number of acid sites (0.45 mmol g−1), deep pore volume (0.322 ml/g) and to the exposed active site planes (110) and (214) of α-Fe2O3. The kinetic constant (k = 0.016–0.02 min−1) and the activation energy (Ea = 57.4 kJ mol−1) of the reaction together with ΔH ‡ (59.4 kJ mol−1), ΔG ‡ (+95.9 kJ mol−1) and ΔS ‡ (- 0.108 kJ mol−1) values elaborate that the reaction is endothermic, non-spontaneous and obey an associative path. The fuel properties derived from cottonseed oil exhibited high quality biodiesel comparable to the international (ASTM) standards. 

Brønsted acid functionalized phthalocyanine on perylene diimide framework knotted with ionic liquid: An efficient photo-catalyst for production of biofuel component octyl levulinate at ambient conditions under visible light irradiation
Novel Brønsted acid functionalized phthalocyanine on perylene diimide framework knotted with ionic liquid (BAFPcPDIL) was synthesized and confirmed by instrumentation techniques. DRS-spectrum and Hammett value has been determined to confirm band-gap and proton levels of photo-catalyst respectively. The photo-catalytic performance was evaluated by production of octyl levulinate (OL) using levulinic acid (LA) with n-octyl alcohol (OA) under visible light irradiations. Response surface methodology (RSM) with Box–Behnken design (BBD) with 29 experiments was applied to explore consequences of four crucial process variables: catalyst loading (A), molar ratio of reactants (B) and power of visible light (C), duration in hour (D) on OL yield. From the model, the optimum conditions for the utmost conversion were found as: 10 mg catalyst with (1:1) alcohol to LA molar ratio under 12 W lamp, in 12 h for completing esterification reaction with 95.58% yield of OL. With optimum conditions, various alkyl esters such as methyl levulinate 92.14%, ethyl levulinate 93.12%, n-propyl levulinate 91.45%, iso-propyl levulinate 92.38%, n-butyl levulinate 85.13%, n-pentyl levulinate 86.35%, n-hexyl levulinate 89.57%, tert-butyl levulinate 91.58%, were successfully synthesized with excellent yields. The plausible photocatalytic mechanism of the esterification reaction was also described. The study was extended on blending of OL with diesel sample in 10–30%, found comparable result of density, kinematic viscosity, calorific values, cetane number, flash, fire and pour point of the blended samples with blank diesel sample and appreciable changes in exhaust gases of 25% blended diesel sample. Additionally, BAFPcPDIL displayed good recyclability without loss of photo reactivity after four runs. 

Synthesis and characterization of nanostructured calcium oxides supported onto biochar and their application as catalysts for biodiesel production
Nanostructured calcium oxides supported onto biochar obtained by pyrolysis of avocado seeds were prepared, characterized and successfully used as catalysts to produce biodiesel from waste oils. The effect of increasing calcium load (5, 10 and 20 wt%) was investigated. Elemental analysis, FTIR, XRD, SEM, BET, acid and basic sites were used to characterize the resulting carbon-based calcium oxides. Supported systems efficiently promoted the transesterification of oil with methanol, but differently from calcium oxide, they were easily recoverable and reusable for three cycles without any loss of activity. Kinetic data were better fitted by a pseudo-second order model with an activation energy of 39.9 kJ mol−1. Thermodynamic parameters of activation energy were also determined for the transesterification reaction (Δ‡ G: 98.68-106.08 kJ mol−1, Δ‡ H: 37.05 kJ mol−1 and Δ‡S: 0.185 kJ mol−1 K). Finally, reaction conditions were optimized using the desirability function applied on the response surface methodology analysis of a Box–Behnken factorial design of experiments. By carrying out the reaction at 99.5 °C for 5 h with 7.3 wt% of catalyst and a molar ratio of methanol to oil of 15.6, a FAME content over 96% was achieved. Even starting from waste cooking oil, final biodiesel was conform to the main EN14214 specifications. 

Ultrasound-assisted production of biodiesel using engineered methanol tolerant Proteus vulgaris lipase immobilized on functionalized polysulfone beads
In the present study, Proteus vulgaris lipase (PVL) was engineered using directed evolution to increase methanol tolerance so that it would be more tolerant and efficient for harsh conditions employed in biodiesel synthesis, which is limiting their industrial use. The influence of ultrasound under different experimental conditions on the biodiesel conversion yield using methanolysis of non-edible neem oil was also emphasized. A special attention was also paid to the immobilization of lipase on Polysulfone (PS) beads and comparative studies with industrially used Burkholderia cepacia lipase. The Engineered Proteus vulgaris lipase showed >80% activity after 3 h when incubated in 50% methanol with simultaneous sonication. The lipase retained improved longevity (~70% residual activity) over wild-type PVL over repeated use. Elsevier B.V.

Screening suitable refinery distillates for blending with HTL bio-crude and evaluating the co-processing potential at petroleum refineries
Currently, the major obstacle in the utilization of biofuels produced from the thermochemical processes for the co-refining approach is miscibility with conventional crude oil followed by co-processing to reduce the high oxygen content. The present study attempted to find the appropriate refinery distillate to blend with bio-crude produced via hydrothermal liquefaction to determine the desired process conditions for miscible blend formulation. Boiling point distribution curves revealed that hydrotreated heavy gas oil was found to be the suitable refinery distillate and the desired process conditions were established for 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, and 20 wt% blends formulation. Further, 10 wt% blend was hydrotreated to evaluate the hydrodeoxygenation ability of the commercial catalysts such as CoMo/γ-Al2O3 and NiMo/γ-Al2O3 to reduce the oxygen content. The physicochemical properties of the formulated blends showed that proper mixing took place between bio-crude and hydrotreated heavy gas oil. Hydrotreatment (via co-processing) of the 10 wt% blend revealed that the commercial catalysts can reduce the oxygen content in the range of 21–28%. 

Sustainable biofuel from microalgae: Application of lignocellulosic wastes and bio-iron nanoparticle for biodiesel production
Biofuels from microalgae are being considered as an alternate renewable energy to fossil fuels, which could extinct by the year 2050 due to its exhaustive usage. Microalgae are tiny cell factories that accumulate large amount of lipids under nutrients starvation, which are sustainable sources for biofuels production. In this study, hydrolysate of lignocellulosic biomass (LCB) was used as a carbon source to improve the production of microalgal biomass, which was further subjected to nitrogen starvation for the enhanced lipid accumulation. The lipid content of LCB supplement 3% and 2% grown cultures of Dictyococcus sp. VSKA18 and Coelastrella sp. M-60 were 44% and 52%, respectively. Further, recovery of fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) was achieved using two different catalysts such as acid (homogeneous) and iron nanoparticles (heterogeneous) synthesized using Sargassum polycystum. Moreover, the saturated fatty acid (SFA) of Dictyococcus sp. VSKA18 and Coelastrella sp. M-60 supplemented with 3% of LCB hydrolysates along with N starvation had yielded 90% and 28% respectively. Fuel quality parameters were also analyzed and compared with ASTM and European standards. Thus, the synthesized bio-iron nanoparticles mediated FAME conversion would be a suitable choice for improving biodiesel production. 

Pyrolysis optimization of Mediterranean microalgae for bio-oil production purpose
Blooms of Microcystis aeruginosa are prevalent in Lake Qaraoun, Lebanon, which poses a great danger to the environment and to the local population. The threat could be inverted onto an opportunity if an efficient method exists to turn microalgae into valuable fuel products. An experiment was conducted to optimize an efficient pyrolysis conditions to produce bio-fuel from such increasingly prevailing microalgae. Five pyrolysis tests were set, including two different temperatures of 400 and 500 °C, two flow rates of 0.3 and 0.6 ml/min, and three heating rates of 10, 15 and 20 °C /min. On the other hand, in order to further evaluate the quality of pyrolysis oil, three hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) tests were run, including three temperatures of 200, 250 and 300 °C as well as three residence times of 1, 1.5 and 2 h. According to results, the high temperature and heating rate of 500 °C and 20 °C /min led to the highest quantity (32.5%) and quality, lowest amount of oxygen and highest heating value, of biocrude oil. Moreover, results of GC–MS analysis revealed that pyrolysis oil contained more straight chains and less oxygenated components; therefore, higher quality, than HTL oil., Islamic Azad University (IAU).

Current trends and prospects in microalgae-based bioenergy production
Algae are fast-growing, microscopic, and eukaryotic organisms that can perform photosynthesis, and simultaneously fix atmospheric CO2. Algal cells contain high quantity of biofuel precursors such as starch and lipid granules. In the past decades, microalgal biomass has emerged as a potential feedstock for bioenergy generation. In the current scenario, it is being extensively explored to produce liquid (bioethanol, biodiesel) and gaseous (biomethane, biohydrogen) fuels. Algal technology has four crucial aspects including strain selection and its cultivation, harvesting techniques, conversion routes, and pretreatment of biomass. The quality and quantity of biomass, available media source, cultivation system as well as environmental conditions collectively help in the selection of the specific algal strain. Despite several in-depth attempts, there are various hurdles and limitations to make algal biofuel technically and economically viable. To meet the operational and economic feasibility, a collective approach is desirable. The present state-of-the-art review deals with all four crucial aspects of algal technology. The manuscript especially covers the significant methods of harvesting, energy conversion, and pretreatment. Moreover, it also revels the advantage of biological agent mediated harvesting, energy conversion and the pretreatment of algal biomass for sustainable biofuel recovery. The prime objective of this review is to give an insight into the aspects of algal technology to promote collective research in the area of algal biofuel. .

Reaction rate law model and reaction mechanism covering effect of plasma role on the transesterification of triglyceride and methanol to biodiesel over a continuous flow hybrid catalytic-plasma reactor
This study investigated predictions of reaction mechanisms and reaction rate law model covering effect of plasma role on the heterogeneous catalytic reaction of triglyceride and methanol to produce biodiesel (fatty acid methyl ester - FAME or fatty acid alkyl ester – FAAE) over a continuous flow hybrid catalytic-plasma reactor. This catalytic reaction was carried out in a dielectric-barrier discharge plasma reactor over 5 wt% K2O/CaO–ZnO catalyst under conditions of atmospheric pressure and the reactor temperature of 65 °C. During the hybrid catalytic-plasma reaction system, the voltage, the catalyst diameter, and the Weight Hourly Space Velocity (WHSV) were kept constant at 5 kV, 5 mm, and 1.186/min, respectively. It was found that transesterification reaction with the hybrid roles of catalytic and plasma achieved 77.2% biodiesel yield. Kinetic studies of this transesterification reaction over a continuous flow hybrid catalytic-plasma reactor suggested following Eley-Rideal mechanism model, where the methanol adsorbed on the catalyst surface reacted with triglycerides in bulk phase to produce an adsorbed methyl ester and glycerol in bulk phase. The possible reaction rate law model found is: -rTG = rME = rs = (0.0078∗(0.0061∗CTG∗CM3–3.0302 × 10−6∗CME3∗CG))/(0.1827∗CM+ 0.0145∗CME+1)3 gmol/gcat.min. This reaction rate law model was useful to design reactor of the hybrid catalytic-plasma chemical reaction system for biodiesel production. The AuthorsChemical engineering; Energy; Organic chemistry; Catalyst; Chemical reaction engineering; Industrial chemistry; Biofuel; Fuel technology; Hybrid catalytic-plasma reactor; Reaction rate law model; Biodiesel; Fatty acid alkyl ester; Plasma roles The Authors

Recent advances in heterogeneous catalyst design for biorefining
Biorefineries are a new concept in chemical manufacturing in which naturally occurring, sustainable biomass resources such as forestry and agricultural waste are converted to diverse fuel and chemical product streams, akin to the processing of non-renewable fossil fuels by petrochemical refineries. Biomass derived from waste agricultural and forestry materials or non-food crops offers the most easily implemented and economical solutions for transportation fuels, and the only nonpetroleum route to organic molecules for the manufacture of bulk, fine, and speciality chemicals necessary to secure the future needs of society. The successful implementation of biorefineries can address concerns over dwindling oil reserves, carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel sources and associated climate change, and will be underpinned by catalytic processes to facilitate the co-production of platform chemicals and biofuels. Catalysis is a central theme in sustainable chemistry, lowering energy and resource requirements while minimising waste production. In contrast to fossil-derived crude oil, which has low oxygen content, the high oxygen and water content of biomass feedstocks presents challenges for their utilisation and requires innovations in catalyst and process design for the selective conversion of these hydrophilic, bulky feedstocks into fuels or high-value chemicals. This article highlights how methods to control porosity, solid acid and base character, and surface hydrophobicity are essential components of a toolkit for the design of heterogeneous catalysts for biomass processing. CSIRO 2020.

Revolutions in algal biochar for different applications: State-of-the-art techniques and future scenarios
Algae are potential feedstock for the production of bioenergy and valuable chemicals. After the extraction of specific value-added products, algal residues can be further converted into biogas, biofuel, and biochar through various thermochemical treatments such as conventional pyrolysis, microwave pyrolysis, hydrothermal conversion, and torrefaction. The compositions and physicochemical characteristics of algal biochar that determine the subsequent applications are comprehensively discussed. Algal biochar carbonized at high-temperature showed remarkable performance for use as supercapacitors, CO2 adsorbents, and persulfate activation, due to its graphitic carbon structure, high electron transport, and specific surface area. The algal biochar produced by pyrolysis at moderate-temperature exhibits high performance for adsorption of pollutants due to combination of miscellaneous functional groups and porous structures, whereas coal fuel can be obtained from algae via torrefaction by pyrolysis at relatively low-temperature. The aim of this review is to study the production of algal biochar in a cost-effective and environmental-friendly method and to reduce the environmental pollution associated with bioenergy generation, achieving zero emission energy production. The Author

Direct laser-induced deposition of AgPt@C nanoparticles on 2D and 3D substrates for electrocatalytic glucose oxidation
We present a new approach for the preparation of electrocatalytically active carbonaceous coatings embedding bimetallic nanoparticles (NPs) - AgPt@C structures, on surfaces with 2D and 3D geometry such as glass covered with indium tin oxide (ITO) film and anodic aluminum oxide substrates, respectively. We provide extensive characterization of the deposited structures and demonstrate their performance towards the electrocatalytic glucose oxidation, one half-reaction of biofuel cells. We observe that a preliminary surface treatment of the porous alumina substrate is essential for a homogeneous laser-induced deposition of AgPt@C nanoparticles across the whole pore depth.

Biodiesel production via simultaneous esterification and transesterification of chicken fat oil by mesoporous sulfated Ce supported activated carbon
Biodiesel, as an alternative fuel for petroleum-derived fuel, has gained significant attention from society. In this research work, biodiesel is produced via simultaneous esterification and transesterification of chicken fat and skin oil (CFSO) over Ce supported sulfated activated carbon derived from coconut shell (ACcs-S). Details of a study on the effect of Ce concentrations in the range of 5–15 wt% were also investigated. The results showed that 5 wt% Ce was an optimum concentration for the esterification and transesterification of CFSO with approximately 93% free fatty acid (FFA) conversion. High FFA conversion by 5Ce/ACcs-S is attributed to it having a sufficient amount of acid-base and noticeable pore structures. The effect of four variables (i.e., methanol to chicken fat oil, catalyst loading, reaction time, and temperature) on the FFA conversion was studied via the one-variable–at-a-time method. Optimum FFA conversion (93%) was achieved at a temperature of 90 °C, 12:1 MeOH to oil ratio, 3 wt % catalyst loading, and 1 h reaction time. 5Ce/ACcs-S shows high chemical stability by maintaining the FFA conversion at up to 90% within five consecutive reaction cycles.

Technical and Economic Analysis of Conventional and Supercritical Transesterification for Biofuel Production
The transesterification process with potassium hydroxide (KOH) catalyst and the methanol supercritical process were evaluated by Aspen HYSYS software. Castor oil and methanol were used as feed and alcohol. In order to accomplish verification, the simulation results were compared to a laboratory research. For economic analysis, these results were transferred to Aspen Economic Analyzer software. Piping and process equipment cost were calculated for the two processes. Additionally, direct and indirect costs of these processes were estimated. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Hydrothermal carbon-supported Ni catalysts for selective hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural toward tunable products
Abstract: 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), as one of the most important renewable platform-chemicals, is a valuable precursor for the synthesis of biofuels and bio-products. In this work, hydrothermal carbon (HC), with a large specific surface area and plenty of oxygen-containing functional groups, was derived from sucrose via a hydrothermal method, which could facilitate the dispersion and anchoring of Ni. The selectivities to 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF), 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran (DMTHF), and 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) were tuned by modulating Ni nanoparticle sizes and Ni/NiO ratios. The yield of BHMF can reach 88% with its selectivity up to 94% on the reduced 10%-Ni/HC catalyst with big Ni particle size; while the total yield of DMF + DMTHF is up to 94.6% at full HMF conversion on the calcined 5%-Ni/HC catalyst with small Ni particle sizes and balanced Ni/NiO ratios; for the calcined Ni/HC catalysts, the synergistic effect between Ni(0), favoring H2 activation and hydrogenation, and NiO, facilitating the hydrogenolysis of C–O bonds, could promote the selective hydrogenolysis of HMF to biofuel production (DMF and DMTHF). Graphic abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Wollastonite decorated with calcium oxide as heterogeneous transesterification catalyst for biodiesel production: Optimized by response surface methodology
CaO is efficient in catalyzing transesterification for biodiesel production, but its industrial application is inherently restricted by active sites leaching. To address this drawback, CaO is decorated into wollastonite to prepare the stable Ca/wollastonite catalyst. Microwave-assisted transesterification is used to produce biodiesel from palm oil, which effectively accelerates the reaction rate and improves the conversion efficiency. The Ca/wollastonite-0.8 catalyst with the mass ratio of CaO to wollastonite of 0.8 performs well with the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield of 97.59%. Also, this catalyst is highly stable, where the FAME yield of 87.30% could be obtained for the fifth reused cycle. CaO is evenly dispersed on the wollastonite surface and the total basicity is high to 0.281 mmol g−1. Meanwhile, transesterification parameters are optimized by response surface methodology with central composite design (RSM-CCD) and the maximum FAME yield of 98.46% is achieved at reaction temperature of 64.2 °C, molar ratio of methanol to palm oil of 15.54 and mass ratio of catalyst to palm oil of 9.21 wt% for 3 h. Besides, the mass ratio of catalyst to palm oil is the primary variable. Wollastonite is demonstrated to be feasible to enhance the stability of CaO in catalyzing transesterification. 

Experimental investigation of biodiesel production from Madhuca longifolia seed through in situ transesterification and its kinetics and thermodynamic studies
The present investigation aims to develop simultaneous extraction and conversion of inedible Madhuca longifolia seed oil into biodiesel by one-step acid-catalyzed in situ transesterification/reactive extraction process. Six different types of pretreatment were used to assess maximum yield of biodiesel. The maximum yield of 96% biodiesel was acquired with ultrasonic pretreatment at 1% moisture content, 0.61 mm seed grain size, 55 °C temperature, 400 rpm stirring speed, 15 wt% catalyst (H2SO4) concentration, and with 1:35 seed oil to methanol ratio in a time period of 180 min. This reaction kinetics precedes first order also the finest value of rate constant and activation energy were calculated as 0.003 min−1 and 14.840 kJ mol−1. The thermodynamic energy properties ΔG, ΔH, and ΔS are computed as 96457.172 J/mol, 12121.812 J/mol K, and − 257.12 J/mol K correspondingly. The enumerated outcome illustrates a heat absorb non-spontaneous/endergonic and endothermal reaction. The result of proposed work unveils ultrasonic pretreatment escalates the biodiesel efficiency and reactive extraction exemplifies the clean, cost-effective single-step approach for production of biodiesel from non-edible sources., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Synthesis of CoO–NiO promoted sulfated ZrO2 super-acid oleophilic catalyst via co-precipitation impregnation route for biodiesel production
This study focuses on the synthesis of a novel heterogeneous CoO–NiO promoted sulfated ZrO2 (CN/SZ) catalyst and investigating its catalytic efficiency as a transesterification reagent. Catalytic performance has also been compared with two reference catalysts viz., sulfated ZrO2 (SZ) and pure ZrO2 (Z). Prepared materials were characterized using X-ray diffraction (XRD) technique, N2- adsorption/desorption study, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDAX), Raman, Fourier Transformed Infrared (FTIR), and X-ray photoelectron (XP) spectroscopy techniques. Surface acidity and basicity were assessed by NH3 and CO2 temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) respectively that established high surface acidity and basicity of CN/SZ nanocatalyst. The reagent has shown supreme catalytic performance as only 0.2 wt% catalyst loading amount has provided 98.8% of biodiesel yield with 3:1 MeOH:Oil molar ratio at 65 °C for 2 h. Also, the reusability study has proved the efficacy of CN/SZ nanocatalyst that it can successfully be reused in five consecutive reaction cycles displaying promising results and the reactivated catalyst provided remarkably high biodiesel yield of 96.8%. Further, the mechanistic pathway of the simultaneous catalytic esterification of free fatty acid and transesterification of triglyceride occurring on catalyst surface has also been explored. 

Esterification and transesterification over SrO–ZnO/Al2O3 as a novel bifunctional catalyst for biodiesel production
A series of novel bifunctional catalysts (SrO–ZnO/Al2O3) have been synthesised via the wet impregnation method for biodiesel production. The basic and acidic activities of the prepared catalysts were investigated using corn oil and oleic acid, respectively. Physio-chemical characteristics of the synthesised catalysts were analysed by XRD, SEM-EDS, TGA-DSC, and FT-IR. 1H NMR was used for analysing the fatty acid ethyl ester and the free fatty acid. The catalyst exhibited higher catalytic activity in transesterification reaction, with 95.1% reaction conversion at operating conditions of 10:1 ethanol to corn oil molar ratio, 10 wt% catalyst loading, and 180 min at 70 °C. However, the conversion for esterification reaction was 71.4% at operating conditions 5:1 ethanol to corn oil molar ratio, 10 wt% catalyst loading, 6 h reaction time at 70 °C reaction temperature. The kinetic studies revealed that the transesterification and esterification reactions have good agreement with the first-order model. 

Comprehensive Study on the Effect of Preparation Conditions on the Activity of Sulfated Silica–Titania for Green Biofuel Production
The binary system of metal oxides is significantly considered due to improving the weakness of each metal cation by supporting other metal cations. Although SiO2–TiO2 is a conventional binary system which usually fabricated by the sol–gel method, the comprehensive study requires on their structure to achieve the suitable properties. Therefore, a series of SO42−/SiO2–TiO2 was synthesized by combining sol–gel and impregnation methods. The effects of Si/Ti molar ratio (0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1), and nitric acid concentration as complex agent (2, 4, and 6 M) in the sol–gel method, and sulfate concentration (0.5, 1, and 2 M) in the impregnation method were evaluated. The results revealed that Si‒O‒Ti bands were fully formed and the high amount of nitric acid concentration has an insignificant effect on the silica–titania framework structure. After loading a sulfate group, TiOSO4 was formed as a highly active structure, leading to increasing the acidity of the sample. However, this structure was transformed to form Ti2(SO4)3 at higher sulfate concentration that has an insignificant influence on the activity of the catalyst. The optimum sample (Si/Ti ratio of 0.8, the nitric acid concentration of 4 M, and sulfate concentration of 1 M) presented a high activity in the esterification reaction. 94.1% of oleic acid was converted at the conditions of 120 °C, 3 wt% of catalyst, methanol/FFA molar ratio of 9, and 4 h of reaction time. Although the catalytic activity was dropped around 9% for the second use, the catalyst preserved its activity for the next five times (i.e., 10% reduction in conversion) that can prove its ability for industrial application., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

The role of electrolytically deposited palladium and platinum metal nanoparticles dispersed onto poly(1,8-diaminonaphthalene) for enhanced glucose electrooxidation in biofuel cells
Glucose biofuel cells are one of the promising power supplies with a competent long-term stability and power density. In this respect, catalysts of palladium (Pd) and platinum (Pt) metal nanoparticles film coated electrode were fabricated for biofuel cell. The Pt and Pd particles were electrochemically deposited onto glassy carbon (GC) electrode modified with poly(1,8-diaminonaphthalene), (p-1,8-DAN), via single or layer-by-layer electrodeposition. In results, Pt/p-1,8-DAN/GC, Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC, Pt-Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC and Pd-Pt/p-1,8-DAN/GC shell-core catalysts were fabricated and characterized by several analytical techniques such as AFM, EDX,SEM, TEM, and XPS, in addition to electrochemical methods. Their catalytic electrooxidation behaviors of glucose were investigated in alkaline medium. The as-prepared nano-catalysts showed improved electrocatalytic performances and better stability for glucose oxidation reaction (GOR) due to the presence of metal nanoparticles. The Pd as core and Pt as shell in Pt-Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC catalyst exhibited higher electrochemically accessible surface area (157.58 m2/g) and a favored electrooxidation efficiency. Moreover, the bimetallic Pt-Pd shell-core electrode showed higher resistance to poisoning (tolerance 1.24) and a decrease in the onset potential to -0.28 V. These multipurpose electro-catalysts are a potential candidate for developing a novel glucose biofuel cell. 

Clean production of ethyl levulinate from kitchen waste
A clean and highly efficient catalytic system for the synthesis of ethyl levulinate (EL) from kitchen waste was developed. A heterogeneous catalyst (Sn/ZrP–SO3H) was prepared and the Brønsted and Lewis acid sites on the surface of the catalyst were evaluated by pyridine FT-IR. Other physicochemical properties were also characterized using XRD, SEM, FT-IR, XPS, BET, NH3-TPD. The yield of EL obtained was 49.27%, when glucose was used as the starting material and subjected to 170 °C for 10 h in the presence of the solid acid catalyst, Sn/ZrP–SO3H. The prepared catalyst was also combined with several metal triflates; (Al(OTf)3, Fe(OTf)3, Sm(OTf)3) to form a catalytic system for the efficient preparation of EL from kitchen waste. Sn/ZrP–SO3H/Al(OTf)3 had superior activity compare to other catalyst combinations. In single factor experiments, the yield of EL reached 52.52% after heating at 170 °C for 4 h. In addition, four-factor and three-level experiments were performed using response surface methodology (RSM) to analyze the interaction between each factor. The optimal reaction conditions predicted by the model (163 °C, 7.63 h, 20 mg Al(OTf)3, 40 mg Sn/ZrP–SO3H and 79.98 mg of kitchen waste) estimated a maximal yield for EL of 51.24%. The experimental yield of EL however was 52.03% which confirms the reliability of the model. This work provides a cleaner production technology for the synthesis of the high value-added chemical EL, and a sustainable route for the utilization of kitchen waste. 

Manganese-Catalyzed Dehydrogenative/Deoxygenative Coupling of Alcohols
Valorization of biomass has become an area of intense focus because of the diminishing reserves of crude oil and the ongoing problem of climate change. The principal strategies for the utilization of biomass as a feedstock are (i) to produce biofuels for the transportation sector and (ii) to produce organic commodity chemicals. In this respect, we have developed a serious of manganese-catalyzed dehydrogenative/deoxygenative coupling reactions of lower alcohols, obtainable from oxygen-rich lignocellulosic biomass, to deliver advanced liquid fuels and valuable chemicals. 1 Introduction 2 Manganese-Catalyzed Upgrading of Ethanol to Butan-1-ol 3 Manganese-Catalyzed Selective Upgrading of Ethanol with Methanol to Isobutanol 4 Manganese-Catalyzed Acceptorless Dehydrogenative Coupling of Alcohols with Hydroxides to Give Carboxylates 5 Manganese-Catalyzed Dual-Deoxygenative Coupling of Primary Alcohols with 2-Arylethanols 6 Conclusion. Georg Thieme Verlag. All rights reserved.

Synthesis of polymer based catalyst: Optimization and kinetics modeling of the transesterification of Pistacia chinensis oil with diethyl carbonate using acidic ionic liquids
A novel solid acidic polymeric ionic liquid catalyst was synthesized for ethyl esters production via the esterification of oleic acid with ethanol, normally transesterification of Pistacia chinensis oil with diethyl carbonate. Gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy analysis was used to characterize the products and optimize the reaction conditions to provide P. chinensis oil derived ethyl esters in 93% yield. Kinetic studies performed at different temperatures revealed that the conversion of P. chinensis oil to an ethyl ester follows first order reaction kinetics. The properties of ethyl esters were determined, found to meet the ASTM D6751-02. Results revealed that the catalyst had perfect utility after several runs without much loss in activity. The mild conditions (1:5) P. chinensis oil:diethyl carbonate molar ratio, 300 wt% PIL loading, 120 °C, 400 rpm, 6 h, recyclability of the catalyst make the proposed synthesis a sustainable method for the development of ecofriendly, cost-effective biofuels. 

Thermocatalytic Hydrodeoxygenation and Depolymerization of Waste Lignin to Oxygenates and Biofuels in a Continuous Flow Reactor at Atmospheric Pressure
Lignin is the only biomolecule with aromatics that could serve as a feedstock to displace some petroleum for specialty chemicals. However, catalysts that are active and selective on model compounds for lignin fail when applied to real lignin with respect to performance and reaction mechanism. Here, we report kinetic data based on atomizing aqueous solutions of waste lignin, guaiacol, and syringaldehyde in a continuous catalytic fixed bed reactor operating at atmospheric pressure, a 5 s residence time, and a 30 mL min-1 (1:2 Ar:H2) volumetric flow rate (STP). The catalyst, NiMoS2 supported on activated carbon, was synthesized by a microemulsion technique and exhibited a combination of weak, strong, and very strong acid sites. Syringaldehyde reacted mostly to liquid products, and conversion increased with time-on-stream from 42% to 72% after 5 h. The main products were 2,6-dimethoxy-4-methylphenol and 1,6 dimethoxyphenol through hydrodeoxygenation and decarbonylation, respectively. Guaiacol conversion decreased with time-on-stream and ranged from 76% to 62% after 5 h. The main product was toluene via catechol, cresol, and phenol as intermediates. We propose reaction pathways for both syringaldehyde and guaiacol. The liquid fraction produced from the conversion of waste lignin contained 16 compounds that were mostly organic acids, followed by aldehydes, alcohols, and ketones. American Chemical Society.

Red-mud based porous nanocatalysts for valorisation of municipal solid waste
Red mud samples were used to catalyse in-situ co-pyrolysis of pinewood and low-density polyethylene for the production of high-quality bio-oil. The sodium cation in the crude red-mud was exchanged with barium and calcium cations and further tested to explore their role in oil upgrading. The relationship between red-mud catalytic activity and its constituents was explored using synthetic sodalite. The red-mud catalysts exhibited a considerable aromatisation capacity compared to the thermal co-pyrolysis, as the selectivity towards monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons increased from 12.7 to 19.6%, respectively. Long-chain molecules cracking was more significant in synthetic sodalite associated with their acidic active sites. The addition of barium and calcium cations to the red-mud largely improved oxygen elimination as a result of the enhanced catalyst basicity. In contrast, the aromatisation ability of red-mud significantly impeded by the large cation size (Ba2+ and Ca2+) due to the limited diffusion of pyrolysis vapours to the active sites. Ba-exchanged red-mud catalysts reduced the content of carboxylic acids in the bio-oil to 1.8 % while maintained a high yield of the organic fraction (34 %). Ca-exchanged red-mud catalysts produced the lowest fraction of oxygenated compounds (35.1 %); however, the organic phase yield was as low as 23.6 %. The modified red-mud catalysts reduced the fraction of oxygenated compounds from 69.9–35.1% during the biomass-plastic co-pyrolysis. Elsevier B.V.

Synthesis and Structural Characterization of Biofuel From Cocklebur sp., Using Zinc Oxide Nano-Particle: A Novel Energy Crop for Bioenergy Industry
This study is reporting the biofuel synthesis and characterization from the novel non-edible feedstock cocklebur seeds oil. The Cocklebur crop seeds oil was studied as a potential source for biofuel production based on the chemical, structural and fuel properties analysis. The oil expression and FFAs content in cocklebur crop was reported 37.2% and 0.47 gram KOH/g, using soxhlet apparatus and acid base titration method, respectively. The maximum conversion and yield of the cocklebur crop seeds non-edible oil to biofuel was pursued 93.33%, using transesterification process. The optimum protocol for maximum conversion yield was adjusted: 1:7 oil-methanol molar ratios, ZnO nano-particle concentration 0.2 gm (w/w), reaction temperature 60°C, and reaction time 45 min, respectively. ZnO nano-particle was prepared by a modified sol-gel method, using gelatin and the particle was XRD, TEM, XPS, and UV-vis spectroscopies. Qualitatively, the cocklebur crop synthesized biofuel was quantified and structurally characterized by GC/MS, FT-IR, NMR, and AAS spectroscopies. Quantitatively, the fuel properties of cocklebur crop biofuel was analyzed and compared with the international ASTM and EN standards. Copyright Ullah, Jan, Ahmad and Ullah.

Transesterification of commercial waste cooking oil into biodiesel over innovative alkali trapped zeolite nanocomposite as green and environmental catalysts
Four types of green alkali modified clinoptilolite (K, Na, Ca, and Mg) were prepared using green tea extracts as novel types of eco-friendly heterogeneous basic catalysts in the transesterification of commercial waste cooking oil into biodiesel. The modified products displayed significant enhancement in the total basicity, surface area, ion exchange capacity, and the morphological properties. The modified samples of K/clinoptilolite (K/Clino), Na/clinoptilolite (Na/Clino), Ca/clinoptilolite (Ca/Clino), and Mg/clinoptilolite (Mg/Clino) showed promising catalytic activities achieving biodiesel yields of 93.6%, 95.2%, 96.4%, and 98.7%, respectively. The best yields were recognized using 4 wt, % as catalysts loading, 16:1 as methanol-to waste oil molar ratio, and at 70 °C as temperature. The best transesterification intervals were identified at 120 min, 120 min, 180 min, and 150 min for K/Clino, Na/Clino, Ca/Clino, and Mg/Clino, respectively. The modified products also demonstrated high reusability properties and the resulted biodiesel in their transesterification systems are of technical properties within the accepted limits of EN 14214 and ASTM D-6751 standards. Elsevier B.V.

Pineapple (Ananás comosus) leaves ash as a solid base catalyst for biodiesel synthesis
Homogeneous catalysts used for biodiesel synthesis have several limitations, including non-recoverability/reusability, saponification, emulsification, equipment corrosion, and environmental pollution. To overcome these limitations, we synthesized a novel catalyst via calcination of pineapple leaves waste. This catalyst was characterized by X-ray powder diffraction, X-ray fluorescence, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis, scanning electron microscopy, and soluble alkalinity measurements. The catalyst's activity with regards to soybean oil transesterification was analyzed, and multiple process parameters (temperature, catalyst amount, reaction time, and methanol:oil molar ratio) were examined. A high catalytic activity, probably related to the 85 wt% content of alkali/alkali metals (K, Ca and Mg), was observed after a 30 min reaction time, 60 °C, 4 wt% of catalyst, oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:40, reaching an oil to biodiesel conversion above 98%. We conclude that the novel catalyst presented here is efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable, while simultaneously abundant waste is reduced. 

Lipid conversion of Scenedesmus rubescens biomass into biodiesel using biochar catalysts from malt spent rootlets
BACKGROUND: Microalgae are considered a third–generation raw material for biofuel production. This work compared the conversion of the extracted oil from the freshwater microalgae Scenedesmus rubescens via transesterification for the production of biodiesel. Considering the cost of biodiesel production, heterogeneous catalysts present a significant advantage because of their stability and reusability. Biochar and modified biochar with H2SO4 were used as catalysts. RESULTS: Biochar (BC) was pyrolyzed at 850 °C, under limited oxygen conditions, and was activated by sulphuric acid (H–BC). The catalyst: oil mass ratios tested were from 0 to 0.7:1 for BC, and from 0 to 1:1 for H–BC. The biochar sample exhibited a strong buffer capacity in the pH range between 7 and 5.5, while the acid treated biochar was strongly acidic and could neutralize a significant amount of bases. The produced methyl esters are almost the same in all cases examined. BC samples gave better transesterification results, as far as it concerns the conversion, compared to H–BC. CONCLUSION: The enhanced activity of the BC with mass used may be correlated with the basic minerals presented on the biochar surface. Raw biochar gave better conversion results (47%) during transesterification compared to the modified biochar with H2SO4 (24%) with better catalyst to molar ratio, 0.7:1 and 0.1:1, respectively. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

Green Synthesis, Characterization and Test of MnO2 Nanoparticles as Catalyst in Biofuel Production from Grape Residue and Seeds Oil
Purpose: The MnO2 nanoparticles, when used as catalyst, determine an enhanced reaction rate of the transesterifications process thus being very attractive for biodiesel production. One of the current limitations of the biofuel production by using MnO2 nanoparticles as catalyst is given by the reaction conditions. This work intends to improve the transesterification reaction efficiency through the use of a microwave field. It can generate large quantities of energy that lead to a good molecular motion thus favoring the transesterification process without altering the molecular structure. The aim of the present research is to explore the possibility of carrying out the microwave-assisted transesterification of grapes residues and seeds oil through the use of MnO2 nanoparticles as catalysts, as well as yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), to efficiently obtain biofuel end product. Methods: Both chemically and biochemically (using plant extracts) synthesized MnO2 nanoparticles were produced and characterized by different techniques like TEM, XRD, BET, XPS, VSM. The analysis of obtained biofuel was performed by GC–MS. Results: The comparison of results revealed that the samples prepared using plant extracts have morphologic properties higher than chemically prepared sample. MnO2 nanoparticles obtained by the use of oregano extracts were further tested for microwave assisted transesterification studies. Conclusions: The surface area of the MnO2 nanoparticles biochemically synthesized was four times higher than the nanoparticles synthesized by chemical method. The MnO2-oregano nanoparticles presented the best catalytic activity for biodiesel production as compared to the yeast catalyst. The use of microwave field for transesterification further enhances the efficiency of the process. Graphic Abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Springer Nature B.V.

Exploring the prospective of weeds (Cannabis sativa L., Parthenium hysterophorus L.) for biofuel production through nanocatalytic (Co, Ni) gasification
Background: While keeping in view various aspects of energy demand, quest for the renewable energy sources is utmost. Biomass has shown great potential as green energy source with supply of approximately 14% of world total energy demand, and great source of carbon capture. It is abundant in various forms including agricultural, forestry residues, and unwanted plants (weeds). The rapid growth of weeds not only affects the yield of the crop, but also has strong consequences on the environment. These weeds can grow with minimum nutrient input requirements, have strong ability to grow at various soil and climate environments with high value of cellulose, thus can be valuable source of energy production. Results: Parthenium hysterophorus L. and Cannabis sativa L. have been employed for the production of biofuels (biogas, biodiesel and biochar) through nano-catalytic gasification by employing Co and Ni as nanocatalysts. Nanocatalysts were synthesized through well-established sol-gel method. SEM study confirms the spherical morphology of the nanocatalysts with size distribution of 20-50 nm. XRD measurements reveal that fabricated nanocatalysts have pure standard crystal structure without impurity. During gasification of Cannabis sativa L., we have extracted the 53.33% of oil, 34.66% of biochar and 12% gas whereas in the case of Parthenium hysterophorus L. 44% oil, 38.36% biochar and 17.66% of gas was measured. Electrical conductivity in biochar of Cannabis sativa L. and Parthenium hysterophorus L. was observed 0.4 dSm-1 and 0.39 dSm-1, respectively. Conclusion: Present study presents the conversion of unwanted plants Parthenium hysterophorus L. and Cannabis sativa L. weeds to biofuels. Nanocatalysts help to enhance the conversion of biomass to biofuel due to large surface reactivity. Our findings suggest potential utilization of unwanted plants for biofuel production, which can help to share the burden of energy demand. Biochar produced during gasification can replace chemical fertilizers for soil remediation and to enhance the crop productivity. The Author(s).

Marketability Prospects of Microbial Fuel Cells for Sustainable Energy Generation
Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) are bioelectrochemical devices, which produce electrical energy from wastewater through degradation of biodegradable organic substrates. The use of MFCs for energy generation from wastewater biofuels through electrochemically active bacteria as biocatalysts has been accepted in the recent past. The power output of MFCs depends upon the electrode material, pH of the medium, temperature, internal and external impedance, and redox potentials of cathodic and anodic chambers. The current review highlights the importance of tuning these parameters for improving the energy generation efficiency of MFCs. Because every technology has associated merits and demerits, thus, to avoid offering details of only success stories, here an effort has been made to critically discuss the recent progress and challenges in the applicability of MFCs as an energy generation source and water purification technology. American Chemical Society.

Optimization and kinetic studies on conversion of rubber seed (Hevea brasiliensis) oil to methyl esters over a green biowaste catalyst
The goal of the study was to establish the optimal condition for the transesterification process for Hevea brasiliensis oil (HBO) conversion into H. brasiliensis oil methyl esters (HBOME) using a novel base heterogeneous catalyst synthesized from a biowaste (kola nut pod husk). Thus, the influence of concentration of catalyst, MeOH:HBO molar ratio, reaction time and reaction temperature on the HBOME yield was identified using Taguchi orthogonal array design approach. Also, the overall reaction rate constant (k) and reaction order (n) for the process was determined as a way to develop a kinetic model. The results showed that HBOME yield of 96.97 wt% could be achieved using catalyst amount of 3.5 wt%, MeOH:HBO molar ratio of 6:1, reaction time of 75 min and reaction temperature of 65 °C. Performance evaluation of the process input variables suggests reaction time had the highest influence on the HBOME yield. The values of n and k were determined to be 1 and 0.0034 min−1, respectively via kinetic modeling of the transesterification process. The cetane number, kinematic viscosity and acid value of the HBOME produced were 59.54 ± 0.15, 4.98 ± 0.12 mm2/s and 0.22 ± 0.00 mg KOH/g oil, respectively, which compared well with the standard specifications for biodiesel. Thus, HBO and kola nut pod husk could serve as cheap bioresources for biodiesel production. 

Acid-functionalized magnetic nanocatalysts mediated pretreatment of sugarcane straw: an eco-friendly and cost-effective approach
The ubiquitous nature of lignocellulosic biomass on planet earth and its economic viability attracted a great deal of attention from researchers and becomes foremost feedstock for biofuel production particularly bioethanol. However, due to complexity in structure, its pretreatment is essentially required prior to actual use. In the present study, a promising approach has been proposed through the development of acid-functionalized magnetic nanocatalysts. Two different acid-functionalized magnetic nanocatalysts i.e. alkylsulfonic acid functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (Fe3O4-MNPs-Si-AS) and butylcarboxylic acid functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (Fe3O4-MNPs-Si-BCOOH) were developed and their efficacy was studied in the pretreatment of sugarcane straw at varying concentrations (100, 200, 300, 400, 500 mg/g of straw). The enhanced concentration dependent production of sugar (xylose) was reported in case of both the nanocatalysts. The maximum 17.06 g/L for Fe3O4-MNPs-Si-AS and 15.40 g/L for Fe3O4-MNPs-Si-BCOOH sugar was reported at 500 mg which is comparatively higher than normal acid (H2SO4) (14.63 g/L) and non-treated (0.24 g/L) sugarcane straw. Further, both the nanocatalysts were recovered by applying an external magnetic field and reused for the next two subsequent cycles of pretreatment. It was observed that with every reuse of nanocatalysts the concentration of sugar production was reduced. Moreover, generation of very less amount of toxic inhibitors was reported in the hemicellulosic hydrolyzate obtained in the present study. Considering these facts, it is believed that such nanocatalysts can be used as an effective, eco-friendly and economically viable alternative to the conventional pretreatment agents like mineral acids., Springer Nature B.V.

Biofuels production from weed biomass using nanocatalyst technology
In the current scenario of climate change, the search for alternative energy sources is very important to reduce the use of fossil fuels. Undesired biomass (weed) from agricultural fields can be used to produce biofuels through nano catalysts enhanced gasification and process. Lignocellulosic part of weedy plants represents a potential alternative feedstock for economic production of bioethanol. Large numbers of weedy plant species are growing all over the world. However, high energy requirements and poor-quality biofuel products are the major constraints for utilization of this technology. Nanomaterials could be used as a catalyst to enhance the energy use efficiency and product quality. So, present study was conducted to produce bio-gas, bio-diesel and bio-char from mixed weed biomass of weeds like Carthamous oxyacantha, Asphodelus tenuifolius and Chenopodium album through gasification process using nano-materials as catalysts. Nickel and cobalt nano-particles were used as nano-catalysts to expedite the bio-chemical reactions for the generation of these products at lower temperatures i.e. (400 C°) in a muffle furnace. Further, these products were characterized using GC-MS analysis. It was observed that biodiesel contained 65.47% esters, which indicates its better quality than the normally produced biodiesel having 15–20% esters contents. Similarly, GC-MS analysis of biogas produced from mixed weed biomass showed 3.76% Methane, 8.32% Propane, 50.16% Ethene, 3.12% Propyne and 34.64% Methanol. The present results clearly exhibited the improved product quality and better energy use efficiency in gasification of weed biomass for bioenergy production. 

Comparative study on pyrolysis of bamboo in microwave pyrolysis-reforming reaction by binary compound impregnation and chemical liquid deposition modified HZSM-5
The deactivation of catalyst is a significant reason for its limited application during the catalytic fast pyrolysis (CFP) process. To reduce the coke formation, binary compound impregnation (BCI) and chemical liquid deposition (CLD) were used to modify HZSM-5 catalysts. At the same time, the self-designed microwave reactor separated the pyrolysis of bamboo and catalytic upgrading of primary vapor, which made the catalytic effect more thorough. Experimental results indicated that CLD used TiO2 deposition to cover external acid sites, while BCI by phosphorus-nickel could cover and partly destroy superficial acid sites through two different ways. Within the scope of the loaded amount studied, the yield of aromatic hydrocarbons in the oil phase increased at first and then decreased, while the coke formation reduced continuously. BTX (benzene, toluene and xylene), the most valuable product in bio-oil, drastically increased by 39.1% and 22.6% respectively over the CLD and BCI modified catalysts. Considering the catalytic performance as well as cost, CLD over HZSM-5 has more advantages in the CFP process to upgrade bio-oil.

Comparative study of synthetic and natural antioxidants on the oxidative stability of biodiesel from Tilapia oil
A major obstacle in the commercialization of biodiesel is its susceptibility to oxidation when exposed to air and light. Approaches to improving the oxidative stability of biofuels include the addition of antioxidants, mixing of vegetable oils or modification of the fatty ester profile. This work aimed to evaluate the physicochemical properties of biodiesel synthesized from Tilapia oil and its oxidative degradation process after addition of both natural ethanolic extract of turmeric (Curcuma longa Linn.) and synthetics butylated hydroxyl anisole (BHA), butylated hydroxyl toluene (BHT), propyl gallate (PG) antioxidants. In addition, some thermodynamic and kinetic parameters were obtained in order to determine the activation energy during the biodiesel oxidation process from different temperatures. The physicochemical properties of biodiesel obtained after the addition of antioxidants are in accordance with current regulations, which suggests it as an excellent alternative source for the biofuel industry. The oxidative stability showed that the natural antioxidant has the best response in control of oxidative process compared to the other synthetic antioxidants. The kinetic study showed the addition of natural antioxidant to biodiesel increases the activation energy (Ea) hindering its oxidation process. These results reveal an improvement in biodiesel stability corresponding to an increase over 450%. 

Physicochemical characteristics of Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst and its mechanistic study in transesterification for biodiesel production
A series of novel mixed metal oxide catalysts with the incorporation of copper as a dopant supported on zinc-alumina (Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3) for biodiesel production have been synthesized and characterized. ZnO is a solid base catalyst, but its weak surface basic properties have limited the usage of ZnO in the transesterification reaction of refined used cooking oil to biodiesel. To further improve the catalytic activity, the copper dopant was loaded by the wetness impregnation method. Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst of 10:90 wt% dopant-to-based (ZnO) ratio with calcination at 800 °C exhibited the highest biodiesel yield (89.5%) at optimum reaction conditions (65 °C, 10 wt% catalyst loading, 1:20 oil-to-methanol mol ratio and 2 h reaction time). The N2 adsorption-desorption and CO2-temperature programmed desorption analyses indicated that the material possessed a high surface area (149 m2/g) and high basicity (3.7424 mmol/g). The mechanistic study confirmed the catalytic reaction followed the Langmuir-Hinshelwood (LH) model, which involves the initial adsorption of reactants molecules on active sites of the catalyst surface. 

Biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using calcium oxide/nanocrystal cellulose/polyvinyl alcohol catalyst in a packed bed reactor
In this study, biodiesel was synthesized from a reaction of waste cooking oil (WCO) and methanol in the presence of catalyst which was derived from chicken bone and coconut residue in a packed bed reactor. Calcium oxide (CaO) was extracted from calcined chicken bone and nano-crystal cellulose (NCC) was isolated from coconut residue by acid hydrolyzed and were supported with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA). The catalyst was analyzed using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) to study its elemental composition and surface morphology. The parameters used for the reaction were optimized by Design of Experiment (DOE) using Central Composite Design (CCD) to maximize the biodiesel yield. The maximum yield of 98.40% was obtained at optimum temperature, methanol to oil and catalyst loading of 65 °C, 6:1 and 0.5 wt%, respectively. Investigation on the kinetic of the reaction specified that the reaction followed pseudo first order reaction with k-value ranged from 0.0092 min−1 to 0.0151 cm−1 and Thiele modulus was less than 2. The activation energy Ea for the transesterification reaction was 45.72 kJ/mol. 

Developing a mini biodiesel production line via sequential conversion to purification from Scenedesmus acuminatus S4 grown in domestic wastewater
BACKGROUND: Full demonstrations of the production of microalgal biodiesel from conversion to purification have been reported only rarely in the literature. This study was aimed at developing a mini production line consisting of sequential conversion, extraction and purification of biodiesel from Scenedesmus acuminatus S4 grown in domestic wastewater. RESULTS: The data showed that the separated conversion-extraction (SCE) produced biodiesel with high yield (99.9%) and purity (87.5%) at 200 g L–1 biomass loading, 5% H2SO4/methanol (v/v) catalyst loading, 100 °C reaction temperature and 200 rpm stirring rate, in a 1 h conversion reaction, followed by extraction with hexane (10 mL:1 g dry cell weight) by mixing for 10 min (200 rpm) at 25 °C. The integrated conversion-extraction (ICE) performed by simultaneous addition of hexane to the biomass and the catalytic solution mixture under the optimized conditions, achieved biodiesel yield and purity of 91.9% and 81.4%, respectively. Crude biodiesel was purified by 40% (w/v) adsorbents [Magnesol and D-sol® (D60)]/crude biodiesel achieving &gt;95% fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) purity, which is superior to the results in the literature and equivalent to fuel grade standard. CONCLUSIONS: Fuel grade biodiesel was successfully produced from S. acuminatus S4 via sequential steps of direct conversion, extraction and purification. The conversion step can be performed via SCE or ICE followed by extraction to obtain crude biodiesel (99% yield and 87.5% purity), whereas the purification step was implemented by dry-washing with Magnesol or D-sol® (D60) to &gt;95% FAME. The current production line has technical merits that need to be further optimized for large-scale application. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

New route for the synthesis of silica-supported calcium oxide catalyst in biodiesel production
This research aims to investigate the role of silica as a support for CaO catalyst in 4 different aspects: determination of optimum parameters, tolerance of water and FFA content, leaching and kinetics evaluation, and reusability of catalyst. Silica was extracted from rice husk by ion exchange method and subsequently impregnated with CaO. The experimental results showed that the supported catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic activity in transesterification of waste cooking oil with high yield of biodiesel, comparable to that of CaO catalyst. This is due to the fact that catalyst with higher surface area produces higher biodiesel yield. The presence of water did not have significant effect on the performance of supported catalysts, as silica can act as catalyst to esterify the FFA. Furthermore, silica support offered the greatest extent of leaching minimization of CaO and it has been proved that the calcium leached species was insignificant in transesterification reaction. Reusability study suggests that the synthesized catalysts can be recycled up for 8 successive runs. In conclusion, employing calcium rich wastes derived CaO impregnated with silica as catalyst showed good potential in catalytic applications with high economic benefits. 

Influence of Various Irradiation Time on Sono-Functionalization of Zirconia-Doped Mesoporous-Silica by Sulfuric Acid for Biofuel Production from Waste Cooking Oil
Abstract: In this study, sulfated zirconia on MCM-41 prepared through a new ultrasound-assisted sulfation method for biodiesel production from waste cooking oil. The effect of different sonication times (15, 30 and 45 min) on nanocatalyst properties were studied using BET, EDX, FESEM, NH3-TPD, FTIR and XRD analyses. The XRD patterns along with the results of FTIR and BET analysis revealed the MCM-41 framework destruction while Zr doping and sulfation of nanocatalysts. The FESEM images of the nanocatalysts illustrated a well distribution and uniform morphology for the SZM(T = 45). The size distribution of the SZM(T = 45) were subsequently determined by FESEM images. Biodiesel production carried out under following constant operational parameters to evaluate catalytic performance of synthesized samples: 5 wt% catalyst loading, 60 °C reaction temperature, methanol/oil molar ratio of 9:1 and 6 h reaction time. Using ultrasound-assisted sulfation method in nanocatalysts preparation was increased dispersion of active phase and stability of synthesized nanocatalysts. Obtained results demonstrated that longer irradiation time in nanocatalyst preparation led to higher biodiesel conversion. Additionally, after five cycles, the sonicated sample showed higher reusability compared to non-sonicated one. Among the prepared samples, the longer sonicated SZM(T = 45) nanocatalyst showed the highest conversion (93.5%) and significant stability in biodiesel production. Graphic Abstract: Sono-sulfated zirconia nanocatalyst supported on MCM-41 was synthesized by an ultrasound-assisted impregnation/hydrothermal hybrid synthesis method. The effect of irradiation time was studied by changing time of the sonication (15, 30, 45 min) during the synthesis which led to different physiochemical properties of the nanocatalyst. It was found that, the performance of investigated nanocatalysts in biodiesel production from sunflower oil showed sonicated catalysts have higher conversion in comparison to non-sonicated catalyst. Biodiesel conversion in catalyst with 60 W and 45 min ultrasonic irradiation showed higher biodiesel conversion and also reusability in reaction environment.[Figure not available: see fulltext.]., Springer Nature B.V.

Recent advances in renewable hydrogen production by thermo-catalytic conversion of biomass-derived glycerol: Overview of prospects and challenges
Glycerol is the main by-products obtained from the transesterification of vegetable oils and animal fats to produce biodiesel which is an important biofuel used for transportation. The increase in the global energy demand has pushed up the production of biodiesel with a corresponding increase in glycerol production over the years. The thermo-catalytic process is gaining wide popularity as sustainable technical routes of converting glycerol to renewable hydrogen. There exists a great potential of utilizing hydrogen as a critical part of a more sustainable and secure energy mix. Hence, this study focusses on the review of the recent advances and development in the thermo-catalytic conversion of glycerol to renewable hydrogen in the last one decade. The analysis of the reviewed articles showed that substantial efforts had been made in the application of thermo-catalytic process for the conversion of glycerol to renewable hydrogen. Glycerol reforming using steam, carbon dioxide (CO2) and oxygen (O2) have received significant research attention and have been found to have great potential as technological routes for hydrogen production. Whereas, the use of the photocatalytic glycerol reforming has the advantages of energy-saving by utilizing the vast available solar resources and suitable photocatalysts. However, each of the thermo-catalytic processes exhibits inherent challenges which have been a bottleneck to the development of the process to industrial scales. Nevertheless, the prospect of employing each of the thermo-catalytic processes for hydrogen production via glycerol conversion was identified with the possible suggestion of strategies of overcoming the challenges. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Biomass-derived syngas production via gasification process and its catalytic conversion into fuels by Fischer Tropsch synthesis: A review
The Fischer–Tropsch (FT) synthesis has been investigated over decades as an alternative route to obtain synthetic fuels from synthesis gas. FT is a high-performance synthesis based on metallic catalysis, mainly using ruthenium, cobalt and iron catalysts, which converts syngas in hydrocarbons and chemical precursors. This work presents a review on the aspects of the syngas production from biomass gasification and its subsequent conversion into fuels through the Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. The usage of biomass, including lignocellulosic residues, as a raw material in the gasification process. Biosyngas is highlighted as a synthetic fuel source to replace nonrenewable, conventional fossil fuels. Lignocellulosic material must be considered a low-cost feedstock to the liquid biofuel production on a large scale. Studies on syngas cleaning to attain the purity required by the FT process is revised. Recent understanding of reaction kinetics and thermodynamics has contributed to increasing the FT performance and economic viability. This paper includes also the debate on main catalysts, industrial process requirements, and chemical reaction kinetics and mechanisms of Fischer–Tropsch synthesis. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Coke formation during thermal treatment of bio-oil
Bio-oil is a mixture of organics produced from pyrolysis of biomass. The organics in bio-oil serve as the feedstock for the production of hydrogen, chemicals, biofuels, and carbon materials. In many processes for conversion of bio-oil, heating is required. The thermal treatment of bio-oil induces the polymerization/cracking of the organics in bio-oil, producing coke. Coke could lower the carbon conversion efficiency of bio-oil, clog the reactor chamber, and deactivate the catalyst, imposing the main challenge for the utilization of bio-oil involving the heating of bio-oil. This review investigates the coking issues in the processes for bio-oil upgrading including esterification, hydrotreatment, catalytic pyrolysis, pyrolysis, steam reforming, and the process for the conversion of bio-oil to carbon materials. The properties of coke formed from thermal treatment of bio-oil, the mechanism for coking of bio-oil, and the methods developed for tackling the coking of bio-oil are the focus. American Chemical Society.

Understanding the influence of the composition of the Ag[sbnd]Pd catalysts on the selective formic acid decomposition and subsequent levulinic acid hydrogenation
Formic acid is obtained in equimolar amount with levulinic acid during the hydrolysis of cellulose and thus can be used as a sustainable hydrogen source in the direct levulinic acid hydrogenation towards gamma-valerolactone (biofuel additive). Ag[sbnd]Pd catalysts prepared by various methods and containing different Ag:Pd ratio were investigated in this context. By combining activity tests, characterization of the main physicochemical properties of the catalysts and DFT study of formic acid decomposition, the key factors responsible for the activity of Ag[sbnd]Pd catalysts in both the formic acid decomposition and the subsequent hydrogenation of levulinic acid were specified. Pd is shown to be active, but prone to poisoning by CO, while the CO poisoning remains limited on diluted Ag[sbnd]Pd alloy with strong intermetallic interaction, where its adsorption is very weak thanks to the isolation of Pd atoms. Therefore, the catalyst containing 4%Ag-1%Pd/AlOOH showed the highest selectivity in formic acid decomposition as well as the highest activity in levulinic acid hydrogenation (34% conversion in 5 h at 190 °C). Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Highly efficient alloyed NiCu/Nb2O5catalyst for the hydrodeoxygenation of biofuel precursors into liquid alkanes
Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is a crucial process for the synthesis of biofuels from renewable biomass. Here, several bimetallic Ni-M/Nb2O5 catalysts (M = Fe, Co, Cu) were synthesized and evaluated in the HDO of biofuel precursors (aldol adduct of furfural with acetone) to liquid alkane and it was found that Ni-Cu/Nb2O5 has the best performance (86.5% yield of octane and 5.1% yield of heptane). Various characterization techniques show that Ni-Cu alloy is formed over the Ni-Cu/Nb2O5 catalyst, which may have the main active metal sites. Moreover, the Ni-Cu alloy has more sites for the adsorption-activation of H2, leading to the high activity. During the HDO process, the ring-opening of the intermediate butyl-tetrahydrofuran (BTHF) and the conversion of octanol are two rate-determining steps. The kinetic study confirms that the ring-opening of BTHF over Ni-Cu/Nb2O5 is more favorable than that over Ni/Nb2O5. More importantly, the Ni-Cu alloy significantly restrained the undesirable decarbonylation due to the weak adsorption of carbonyl, which was key for the efficient production of Cn alkanes. This work provides an in-depth understanding of the role of Ni-Cu alloys and new insights into the design of non-noble metal catalysts for the HDO of biofuel precursors. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Heterogeneous catalysis in (bio)ethanol conversion to chemicals and fuels: Thermodynamics, catalysis, reaction paths, mechanisms and product selectivities
In gas/solid conditions, different chemicals, such as diethylether, ethylene, butadiene, higher hydrocarbons, acetaldehyde, acetone and hydrogen, can be produced from ethanol with heterogeneous catalytic processes. The focus of this paper is the interplay of different reaction paths, which depend on thermodynamic factors as well as on kinetic factors, thus mainly from catalyst functionalities and reaction temperatures. Strategies for selectivity improvements in heterogeneously catalyzed processes converting (bio)ethanol into renewable chemicals and biofuels are also considered. MDPI AG. All rights reserved.

Green diesel production over nickel-alumina nanostructured catalysts promoted by copper
A series of nickel–alumina catalysts promoted by copper containing 1, 2, and 5 wt. % Cu and 59, 58, and 55 wt. % Ni, respectively, (symbols: 59Ni1CuAl, 58Ni2CuAl, 55Ni5CuAl) and a non-promoted catalyst containing 60 wt. % Ni (symbol: 60NiAl) were prepared following a one-step co-precipitation method. They were characterized using various techniques (N2 sorption isotherms, XRD, SEM-EDX, XPS, H2-TPR, NH3-TPD) and evaluated in the selective deoxygenation of sunflower oil using a semi-batch reactor (310 ◦C, 40 bar of hydrogen, 96 mL/min hydrogen flow rate, and 100 mL/1 g reactant to catalyst ratio). The severe control of the co-precipitation procedure and the direct reduction (without previous calcination) of precursor samples resulted in mesoporous nano-structured catalysts (most of the pores in the range 3–5 nm) exhibiting a high surface area (192–285 m2 g-1). The promoting action of copper is demonstrated for the first time for catalysts with a very small Cu/Ni weight ratio (0.02–0.09). The effect is more pronounced in the catalyst with the medium copper content (58Ni2CuAl) where a 17.2% increase of green diesel content in the liquid products has been achieved with respect to the non-promoted catalyst. The copper promoting action was attributed to the increase in the nickel dispersion as well as to the formation of a Ni-Cu alloy being very rich in nickel. A portion of the Ni-Cu alloy nanoparticles is covered by Ni0 and Cu0 nanoparticles in the 59Ni1CuAl and 55Ni5CuAl catalysts, respectively. The maximum promoting action observed in the 58Ni2CuAl catalyst was attributed to the finding that, in this catalyst, there is no considerable masking of the Ni-Cu alloy by Ni0 or Cu0. The relatively low performance of the 55Ni5CuAl catalyst with respect to the other promoted catalysts was attributed, in addition to the partial coverage of Ni-Cu alloy by Cu0, to the remarkably low weak/moderate acidity and relatively high strong acidity exhibited by this catalyst. The former favors selective deoxygenation whereas the latter favors coke formation. Copper addition does not affect the selective-deoxygenation reactions network, which proceeds predominantly via the dehydration-decarbonylation route over all the catalysts studied. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Deposition of NiO nanoparticles on nanosized zeolite nay for production of biofuel via hydrogen-free deoxygenation
Nickel-based catalysts play an important role in the hydrogen-free deoxygenation for the production of biofuel. The yield and quality of the biofuel are critically affected by the physicochemical properties of NiO supported on nanosized zeolite Y (Y65, crystal size of 65 nm). Therefore, 10 wt% NiO supported on Y65 synthesized by using impregnation (IM) and deposition-precipitation (DP) methods were investigated. It was found that preparation methods have a significant effect on the deoxygenation of triolein. The initial rate of the DP method (14.8 goil•h-1) was 1.5 times higher than that of the IM method (9.6 goil•h-1). The DP-Y65 showed the best deoxygenation performance with a 80.0% conversion and a diesel selectivity of 93.7% at 380 °C within 1 h. The outstanding performance from the DP method was due to the smaller NiO particle size (3.57 ± 0.40 nm), high accessibility (H. F value of 0.084), and a higher Bronsted to Lewis acidity (B/L) ratio (0.29), which has improved the accessibility and deoxygenation ability of the catalyst. The NH4+ released from the decomposition of the urea during the DP process increased the B/L ratio of zeolite NaY. As a result, the pretreatment to convert Na-zeolite to H-zeolite in a conventional zeolite synthesis can be avoided. In this regard, the DP method offers a one-pot synthesis to produce smaller NiO-supported nanosized zeolite NaY with a high B/L ratio, and it managed to produce a higher yield with selectivity towards green diesel via deoxygenation under a hydrogen-free condition. by the authors.

Energy optimization of Multiple Stage Evaporator system using Water Cycle Algorithm
Black liquor, a residual stream from the Kraft recovery process of paper mills is an incipient biomass energy resource which finds prospective biofuel-based industrial applications to ensure process self-sufficiency and sustainability. Black liquor is concentrated using Multiple Stage Evaporator, the utmost energy intensive unit, before using it as biofuel. Pertaining to the contemporary global energy scenario, improvement in energy efficiency of Multiple Stage Evaporator becomes indispensable. The present work investigates the non-linear modeling and simulation-based optimization of Heptads' stage based Multiple Stage Evaporator in backward feed flow configuration integrated with various energy saving strategies. A novel metaheuristic approach, Water Cycle Algorithm has been employed to search the optimum estimates of unknown process variables and therefore, the optimum energy efficiency parameters. The optimization results demonstrate the efficiency of Water Cycle Algorithm in screening the most appropriate operating strategy, i.e., hybrid model of all energy saving strategies (steam-split, feed-split and feed-preheating) with optimum energy efficiency i.e. Steam Economy of 7.092 and Steam Consumption of 1.919 kg/s. Moreover, a comparative analysis of the results with previous literature and real-time plant estimates reveal that the hybrid model offers improvement of 52.84% in Steam Economy and reduction in Steam Consumption by 28.13% when compared to the real plant data.

Novel Ru nanoparticle catalysts for the catalytic transfer hydrogenation of biomass-derived furanic compounds
The catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) reaction was investigated for boosting the reduction of biomass-derived furanic compounds to obtain high-quality liquid biofuels. The CTH of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) and furfural to 2-methylfuran (MF) was thoroughly studied over the Ru, Pd, Au, Pt, Ni, Rh and Cu metal catalysts supported on nitrogen-doped mesoporous carbons (NMCs) by utilizing 2-propanol as a source of hydrogen. The structural characteristics of the materials were examined by employing various physico-chemical methods, such as XRD, N2 sorption, CHN analysis, XPS, FT-IR spectroscopy, H2-TPR, TEM, CO2-TPD, ICP-OES and Raman spectroscopy. The influence of the N content, basicity of the catalyst, reaction temperature, hydrogen donor, nature of the catalyst support and transition metal was systematically investigated with regard to the substrate conversions and product yields. The correlation between the N content (wt%) of the catalysts and the Ru nanoparticle size (nm) and turnover frequency (h-1) was also investigated. Highly dispersed Ru nanoparticles (1.9 nm) supported on NMC displayed admirable catalytic performance in CTH for the conversion of HMF to DMF and furfural to MF. The catalyst Ru-NMC with a good N content (11.4 wt%) gave 84 and 87 mol% yields of DMF and MF, respectively, with 2-propanol as the source of hydrogen under mild reaction conditions. In addition, this catalyst demonstrated excellent recyclability. The better catalytic activity of the Ru-NMC catalyst in the CTH of HMF and furfural was credited to the small size of the Ru metal nanoparticles (1.9 nm), high N content, superior metal-support interaction and mesoporous framework of the catalyst. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Reductive catalytic routes towards sustainable production of hydrogen, fuels and chemicals from biomass derived polyols
Biomass derived polyols represent one of the most attractive resources for modern bio-refineries that need renewable feedstocks directly convertible into chemicals, biofuels and energy carriers. In the past two decades, the reductive catalytic conversion of polyols via hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, hydrogenolysis and aqueous phase reforming processes has received more and more attention allowing the sustainable production of important products such as glycols, alkanes and H2. In this contribution, the state of the art in the processing of biomass derived C6 and C5 polyols, namely sorbitol and xylitol, to produce added value chemicals, fuels and energy (H2) is reviewed highlighting the most reliable and promising catalytic systems used so far merging, at the same time, the reaction conditions adopted for obtaining a target products. The final aim is to provide a simple and comprehensive guide to academic and industrial researchers for the development of both the future generation of catalysts and greener chemical processes to be used in the valorization of biomass derived sorbitol and xylitol.

Comparative evaluation of graphene oxide and graphene nanoplatelets as fuel additives on the combustion and emission characteristics of a diesel engine fuelled with diesel and biodiesel blend
Graphene is known for its superior physical properties and widespread engineering application. The present work investigates the effect of graphene-based nanoparticles, namely graphene oxide (GO) and graphene nanoplatelets (GNP), as fuel additives on the combustion and emission characteristics of a turbocharged diesel engine. This study utilized fossil diesel, karanja and waste cooking biodiesel. The nano additives were amalgamated with diesel and biodiesel blends (B20) at proportions of 20, 40, and 60 ppm. Thermo-chemical and particle characterization of the nano additives were tested using thermal gravimetric analysis, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron microscope, respectively. The filtration and injector wear characteristics of the nano additive fuel blends were evaluated by filter blocking tendency tester and high-frequency reciprocating rig. A maximum smoke reduction of 29.2% is observed with 40 ppm of GO and 60 ppm of GNP has yielded 26.4% reduction in nitric oxide emission. Among the tested additives, GO shown a lower sooting tendency, whereas GNP has exhibited better emission reduction with respect to NO, CO, and HC. It is concluded that both GO and GNP are attractive fuel additives for better emission control without any consequences on the filterability and injector wear. Elsevier B.V.

Conventional vs. hybrid methods for dispersion of MgO over magnetic Mg–Fe mixed oxides nanocatalyst in biofuel production from vegetable oil
In this research, MgO/MgFe2O4 heterogeneous magnetic nanocatalyst was used in biodiesel production and to study its structural and morphological characteristics, various methods have been used in MgO addition on the support. Impregnation, Precipitation, Precipitation – Hydrothermal, Precipitation – Ultrasonic and Combustion methods were utilized to add the MgO on the MgFe2O4 to find the suitable surface structure and catalytic activity. Combustion synthesis was used as a facile and low cost preparation route for fabrication of all nanocatalysts’ support because of suitable porosity for the biodiesel production reaction. For this purpose, the samples were analysed by XRD, FESEM, EDX, BET-BJH, and FTIR and then used in the transesterification reaction. Results indicate the sheet like morphology in precipitation and precipitation-hydrothermal methods and lower particle size in combustion synthesized nanocatalyst. Suitable surface structure and proper pore size and volume caused the combustion prepared sample to score the highest yield of 92.9% in biodiesel production from sunflower oil. This sample showed proper stability and reusability potential while the structure remained intact after five times being used in the reaction. Due to the magnetic characteristic of the support the catalyst separation was easy and this caused negligible catalyst loss. 

Dolomite incorporated with cerium to enhance the stability in catalyzing transesterification for biodiesel production
Stability of the calcined dolomite in catalyzing transesterification during the reused cycles is poor due to the leaching out of the calcium active sites and dolomite is incorporated with cerium to overcome the drawback in this study. Three different methods of the wet impregnation, direct wet impregnation and solid mixing are used for the cerium incorporation, where the wet impregnation method with the cerium to calcium molar ratio of 0.6 is preferred for the best catalytic performance. The maximum biodiesel yield of 97.21% is achieved with the catalyst to oil mass ratio of 0.05 and methanol to oil molar ratio of 15 at 65 °C for 2 h. Attributed to the strong synergistic effect between CaO and CeO2, the leaching out of the calcium active sites from the cerium incorporated dolomite catalyst into the liquid transesterification products is greatly reduced and the biodiesel yield of 88.63% is obtained for the fifth reused cycle. The physical properties of the produced biodiesel are in accordance with the ASTM D 6751 or EN 14214 standard to guarantee its industrial application. 

Facile Synthesis of Kilogram-Scale Co-Alloyed Pt Single-Atom Catalysts via Ball Milling for Hydrodeoxygenation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural
Catalytic conversion of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) into high-quality biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) is significant for the utilization of biomass but remains a substantial challenge. Herein, we report a straightforward, eco-friendly, and scalable ball milling method for the synthesis of Co-alloyed Pt (Pt1/Co) single-atom alloy (SAA) catalysts at kilogram levels. The catalysts exhibit superior catalytic performance for the hydrodeoxygenation of HMF to DMF, obtaining 100% HMF conversion and 92.9% selectivity to DMF under 1.0 MPa H2 at 180 °C for 2 h. The reaction pathway is also investigated, which shows that the hydrogenolysis of the C=O bond in HMF to form 2,5-dihydroxymethylfuran is the main route during the hydrodeoxygenation and promoted by the synergistic effect of Pt and Co. Pt1/Co SAA catalysts display excellent stability without aggregation after five successive runs. More inspiringly, our method achieves the mass production of Pt1/Co at the kilogram scale, rendering its potential for practical applications. Moreover, by varying acetylacetonate precursors, we show the general synthesis of different Co-supported noble metal SAA catalysts (M1/Co, M = Pd, Ru, Ir, and Rh). Our findings not only offer a facile and readily scalable synthetic approach of SAA catalysts but also open new avenue to the exploitation of biomass. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Specific role of aluminum site on the activation of carbonyl groups of methyl levulinate over Al(OiPr)3 for γ-valerolactone production
The high-efficiency synthesis of biofuel γ-valerolactone (GVL) from biomass-derived levulinates is a challenging task. The Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley (MPV) reduction with its extraordinary chemoselectivity is advantageous for the hydrogenation process, compared to the molecular-hydrogen-based process using noble metal catalysts. Therefore, we used a classical Al-based isopropoxide to catalyze transfer hydrogenation (CHT) of methyl levulinate (ML) to GVL. A high yield of GVL up to 97.6% could be achieved using 2-proponal as the H-donor and solvent under mild conditions (150 °C, 30 min). Besides, three reaction stages were observed in the conversion, including transesterification, hydrogenation and cyclization. LC/MS analysis and the density functional theory (DFT) caculations revealed that Al atom of Al(OiPr)3 as the electron transfer center activated ester carbonyl of the substrate via four-membered transition states before activating the ketone carbonyl, resulting in the occurrence of transesterification prior to the hydrogenation. In addition, 2-propanol as proton transfer carrier assisting the cyclization process was proved to be the lowest-energy pathway. Our work shed light on the role of Al (OiPr)3 in the MPV reduction of ML, providing a comprehensive understanding on the metal alkoxide catalysis mechanism for GVL production. Elsevier B.V.

Sulfonic acid modified hollow polymer nanospheres with tunable wall-thickness for improving biodiesel synthesis efficiency
Precisely designing the morphology and size of nanostructures is vital in green chemistry as various advanced applications depend upon the shapes and dimensions of the functionalised materials. Herein, we report on a green and efficient self-assembly strategy for synthesising hollow polymeric nanospheres with tunable wall thicknesses. The morphology and shell thickness of the nanospheres can be easily tailored by rationally manipulating monomer and catalyst combinations during the one-pot Friedel-Crafts polymerisation process, without using any templates or surfactants. Heterogeneous solid sulfonic acid catalysts can be easily achievedviathe post-sulfonation strategy. These porous materials have preferable surface areas, ordered hollow pore structures, and accessible acidic sites, and they serve as promising catalysts for biodiesel production. This study provides insights into the production of template- and metal-free based catalysts for biofuel production, which is imperative for the green and efficient design and manufacture of high-activity heterogeneous catalysts. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2020.

The principles and recent applications of bioelectrocatalysis
Bioelectrocatalysis is a phenomenon concerned with biological catalysts, which accelerates the electrochemical reactions. The bioelectrocatalysis has been widely explored by the research community in various aspects. Enzymes can catalyze different chemical reactions in living organisms by enzymes as the most important biological catalysts. These enzymatic biocatalysts are commercially available and commonly called enzyme electrodes. Electron transfer between the active center of the enzyme and the electrode can be performed either by direct electron transfer (DET) or by means of mediators (i.e. mediated electron transfer (MET), which are discussed in details in the review presented. Therefore, different strategies have been used to increase the efficiency and stability of bioelectrocatalysis. In this review, different strategies of the bioelectrode designs are discussed and the application of the common bioelectrodes used in the biosensors are presented in the various fields. Moreover, a summary of the research status in the applications of bioelectrocatalysis in biosensors and biofuel cells was provided. Iranian Chemical Society.

Catalytic hydrodeoxygenation of biomass-derived pyrolysis oil over alloyed bimetallic Ni3Fe nanocatalyst for high-grade biofuel production
The design of cost-effective and high-performance bimetallic catalysts has become crucial for the effective conversion of biomass-derived pyrolysis-oil (Py-oil) into liquid biofuels. New bimetallic Ni3Fe catalysts were developed for effective hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of Py-oil derived from date seeds. Ni3Fe catalyst showed a well-defined octagon-like morphology with a diameter of 120 nm and high saturation magnetization (Ms) of 78 emu g−1 at room temperature. Py-oil was subjected to catalytic HDO processes at 250 °C for 120 min in a 10 bar H2 atmosphere in the presence of Ni3Fe catalyst. Characterization results confirmed HDO of several components of Py-oil, including phenols, acids, aldehyde and ketones, sugars and aromatic hydrocarbons over the surfaces of Ni3Fe catalyst. The obtained upgraded Py-oil (HDO Py-oil) showed the highest hydrocarbons content of 23.77%, higher heating value (HHV) of 36.78 MJ kg−1, and lower content of water, total acid number, and viscosity than fresh Py-oil. Bimetallic Ni3Fe catalyst resulted in better HDO performance and re-usability for five consecutive cycles than recently reported monometallic or noble metal nanocatalysts. Plausible reaction pathways for the formation of major components including ethane, ethyl acetate, 2,5-dimethylfuran, D-sorbitol, methylcyclohexane, furfural alcohol, and 1,5-pentane diols are discussed. Results demonstrate that this simple and active bimetallic catalytic system leads to a cutting-edge liquid biofuels production pathway in the future. 

Co-generation of liquid biofuels from lignocellulose by integrated biochemical and hydrothermal liquefaction process
Different thermal stability of three major components is a challenge to efficiently liquefy lignocellulosic biomass into bio-oil because the degradation products from holocellulose can react with lignin, resulting in repolymerization reactions. In this work, a biorefinery approach of co-generation of bioethanol and bio-oil from rice straw that integrated separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF) and hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) processes was proposed. SHF of dilute sulfuric acid pretreated rice straw gave a bioethanol concentration of 8.3 g/L with approximately 68% of theoretical yield. The maximum bio-oil yield 31.36 wt% via HTL of solid fermentation residues using bioethanol wastewater as the solvent was obtained under optimum conditions. Mass balance showed that 9.7 wt% bioethanol and 15.0 wt% bio-oil were produced corresponding to 56% energy recovery. Separate conversion of cellulose and lignin could be one promising way to enhance the overall energy recovery from lignocellulose to liquid biofuels.

Fabrication of sulfated spinel nickel aluminate for biofuel production: influence of Ni/Al ratio on its activity
Fabrication of active, stable, and regenerable catalysts is the main purpose of researchers in which spinel-type catalysts can provide some excellent properties to utilize in chemical processes. However, some effective parameters on their properties and performance must be deeply evaluated. Therefore, in this study, the effect of Ni/Al ratio on the properties and performance of Ni-NiAl2O4 catalyst synthesized by solution combustion method was investigated. The sulfated structure of the samples was used as solid acid catalysts for the esterification of oleic acid. Various characterization techniques were carried out on SO4 2−/Ni-NiAl2O4 composites, and the results revealed that the increase of nickel concentration led to the formation of NiO and metal Ni which bonded strongly with sulfate groups during the impregnation process. The strong bands between Ni cations and sulfate group increase sharply the surface area (from 28.6 m2 s−1 for Ni/Al ratio = 1 to 35.4 m2 s−1 for Ni/Al ratio = 1.75) and the activity of the samples, consequently. However, higher amounts of Ni cations (Ni/Al ratio of 2) led to agglomerated particles that were detected on the surface which filled the porosities. It can cause to reduce the surface area and activity of SO4/Ni-NiAl2O4 nanocatalyst. The sample fabricated by 1.75 times of Ni/Al ratio presented the highest surface area, pore diameter (the most of pores are greater than 8 nm), less roughness and uniform particle size that converted more than 95% of oleic acid to ester at the conditions of 120 °C, 9 molar ratio of methanol to oleic acid, 3 wt% of catalyst and 4 h of reaction time. It was also remained active for four uses and was successfully regenerated after deactivation by re-loading the sulfate group., King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology.

Production and characterization of biodiesel from oil of fish waste by enzymatic catalysis
The objective of this paper was to optimize, by composite central design coupled to response surface methodology, the enzymatic biodiesel production from oil coming from fish waste, and to characterize the obtained product. The lipase from Thermomyces lanuginosus immobilized on octadecyl metacrylate beads was used as biocatalyst. Optimal conditions were temperature of 35 °C, 10% w/w of biocatalyst content and 216 rpm of agitation rate. Under optimal conditions, an experimental biodiesel yield of 75.3% was obtained after 24 h of reaction time. The biodiesel presented an acid value (0.9 ± 0.28 mg KOH/g) that was higher than the established limits, while other parameters like density (0.89 ± 0.01 g/mL), viscosity (5.3 ± 0.004 mm2/s), calorific value (38.1 ± 0.21 MJ/kg) and cloud point (10.5 ± 0.47 °C), complied with the recommendations of the ASTM D6751 standard. 

Esterification of free fatty acids using ammonium ferric sulphate-calcium silicate as a heterogeneous catalyst
In view of the fast depletion of fossil fuels, biodiesel seems to be a possible new alternative to counter the fuel crisis. In order to avoid excessive exploitation of agricultural land for the production of food crop feedstock, the main focus has been on the usage of waste cooking oils meant for disposal to be used in biodiesel production. However, the high free fatty acid (FFA) content in waste oils has been an issue and it is envisaged that heterogeneous acid catalysts can be utilised as they would have a higher tolerance of FFAs and water. In this study, we report the synthesis and the utilisation of an inexpensive heterogeneous acid catalyst, namely ammonium ferric sulphate-calcium silicate (AFS-CS) synthesised via the impregnation method in 2:1 mass ratio in biodiesel production. The reaction conditions for esterification of lauric acid (LA) was optimised by using both standard and statistical analysis method which gave maximum methyl esters conversion of 100% within 2 h reaction time, 4 wt% of AFS-CS catalyst amount and 15:1 molar ratio of methanol to LA at 65 °C. Palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) was esterified by using the same optimised conditions, which gave 72.6% of methyl esters conversion. 

Biodiesel production and parameter optimization: An approach to utilize residual ash from sugarcane leaf, a novel heterogeneous catalyst, from Calophyllum inophyllum oil
The rapid depletion of natural oil resources and growing environmental problems has led to the hunt for a cost-efficient method for production of fuel-grade Fatty acid methyl esters (FAME). The supremacy of heterogeneous catalysis urges the development of bio-based catalyst as an alternative to the previously used catalyst. The present study elevates the practicability of utilizing residual ash from sugarcane leaves as a catalyst for the production of Calophyllum inophyllum methyl esters. XRD, SEM, FT-IR were used to characterize the residual ash. Central Composite design based response surface methodology was employed to study the relationship between process parameters on FAME yield. In optimum conditions of methanol to oil ratio of 19:1, 5 wt% of catalyst and temperature of 64 °C, there obtained a maximum FAME yield of 97%.85% yield up to 6 cycles has been shown by reusability data. Performance and emission exhaust analysis of produced FAME shows that blended version of B10 and B80 has a better efficiency of using biodiesel as a backup energy source. 

Sono-enhanced dispersion of CaO over Zr-Doped MCM-41 bifunctional nanocatalyst with various Si/Zr ratios for conversion of waste cooking oil to biodiesel
In present work, the catalytic properties of MCM-41 were boosted by introducing Zr into its structure with various amounts of Si/Zr molar ratios. Then it was loaded by calcium through conventional impregnation and sono-dispersion. Synthesized nanocatalysts were analysed using EDX, XRD, FTIR, FESEM and BET-BJH techniques. The results of XRD technique revealed the fabrication of MCM-41 and CaO. The FESEM images proved that the surface particle sizes of the synthesized catalysts were in the range of nanoscale and EDX results represented that Ca was more effectively scattered over the support in sonicated samples compared to non-sonicated one. Also, both FESEM and BET-BJH analysis represented a decrease in MCM-41 specific surface area with Si/Zr molar ratio reduction. The catalytic performances of bifunctional samples were evaluated for transesterification and esterification reactions. The constant operational conditions were as follows: 70 °C, MeOH/Oil = 9 and 5 wt% catalyst. Generally, the obtained results demonstrated a remarkable improvement in biodiesel conversion due to an increase of Zr amounts in catalysts and also the sample which was exposed to ultrasound represented better reusability in comparison with the non-sonicated sample. Among the prepared samples, the sonicated Ca/ZM-U (Si/Zr = 10) sample was the best catalyst for biodiesel production with high reusability. 

Novel biocatalyst for optimal biodiesel production from diatoms
Fatty acid methyl ester (biodiesel) has been derived from oil present in algae through transesterification using catalysts of acids, base, supercritical fluids, etc. These catalysts are corrosive and have been posing challenges of contaminating the environment necessitating environmentally friendly and biodegradable catalysts such as enzyme (lipase) based biocatalysts. In this study, fungal strains (endophytic/free spores) were isolated from an estuarine ecosystem and screened for extracellular lipase activities. A novel fungal strain Cladosporium tenuissimum, identified through molecular technique exhibited higher lipolytic activity among the isolates. The crude lipase extracted from fungus was subjected to ammonium sulphate precipitation and purification using Superdex 200 gel filtration chromatographic system. The molecular weight of purified lipase was found to be ∼46 KDa and a specific activity of 37.2 U/mg. Lipase activities attained stability and reached maximum at 60 °C temperature and pH of 6. The purified enzyme was used as a biological catalyst for enzymatic transesterification of oil obtained from an indigenously isolated salt tolerant diatom Nitzschia punctata. Spectroscopic analysis on fatty acids and Fatty Acid Methyl Esters derived from diatom exhibited similarities in specific functional groups between algal oil and biodiesel. Comparisons on biodiesel yield estimation and FAME compositions of enzyme catalyzed, acid catalyzed biodiesel assessed through gas chromatographic techniques revealed a higher efficiency (87.2 ± 0.47%) of biocatalysts compared to conventional acid catalyst (83.02 ± 0.35%) exhibiting potential scope for large scale application of environment friendly biocatalysts to enhance the conversion performances of the transesterification process.

Nano-sulfated zirconia catalyzed biodiesel production from tannery waste sheep fat
This study makes use of tannery waste to produce biodiesel using a nano-sulfated zirconia catalyst (ferric-manganese-doped sulfated zirconia). It was through a modified wetness impregnation method that the catalyst was prepared which was then characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The catalytic property of the synthesized catalyst was determined by using it to produce biodiesel from tannery waste sheep fat. A study was carried out to find the effect of the different parameters affecting the process. Optimized conditions of 15:1 methanol to fat molar ratio and catalytic loading of 8 wt% at 65 °C with a stirring rate of 400 rpm for a reaction duration of 300 min gave a maximum yield of 98.7 wt%. The performance of the catalyst during recycling was analyzed by conducting reusability study. The reused catalyst gives a maximum yield above 90 wt% up to five cycles with a catalyst recovery of 88 wt%. ASTM D6751 standard was used to compare the analyzed fuel properties of the biodiesel., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Biodiesel production from refined used cooking oil using co-metal oxide catalyzed transesterification
The world is challenged with depletion of non-renewable fossil fuel and environmental pollution. Thus, this research was emphasized on converting refined used cooking oil to safer and low toxicity biodiesel by base-catalyzed transesterification reaction. Alumina supported magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium oxide-based catalysts with iron as its dopant were optimized according to various calcination temperatures and iron loadings. The optimum conditions over potential catalyst was achieved with 20 wt% of Fe loading for Fe/Ba/Al2O3 catalyst calcined at 800 °C which gave the maximum biodiesel production of 84.02%. Characterization of catalyst carried out by XRD showed that the 20Fe:80Ba/Al2O3 catalyst calcined at 800 °C had a polycrystalline structure with high BET surface area (133.59 m2/g) while FESEM analysis displayed a morphology of uniform plate-like shape grains with fine particles in the range of 55–60 nm. CO2-TPD results showed that the catalyst exhibited highest basicity of 2.5854 mmol/g, while TGA analysis proved that 800 °C was the optimum calcination temperature. The transesterification process of refined used cooking oil to produce high yield biodiesel was effectively attained using 20Fe:80Ba/Al2O3 catalyst. 

Development of a bio-based bifunctional catalyst for simultaneous esterification and transesterification of neem seed oil: Modeling and optimization studies
High methanol/oil ratio together with reaction temperature with increase reaction time are some of the major drawbacks affecting the use of inorganic heterogeneous catalysts for simultaneous esterification and transesterification of oils. In this study, a novel bio-based bifunctional catalyst (BBFC) was prepared from sulfonated calcined corncobs and calcined poultry droppings by wet impregnation method. Characterization of the BBFC was done using X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscope (SEM) and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Its catalytic activity in simultaneous esterification and transesterification of neem seed oil (NSO) having high free fatty acid content of 4.426% was investigated, with process parameters optimized using response surface methodology (RSM). Result revealed that the BBFC is highly bifunctional, possessing both acidic and basic oxides. Biodiesel yield of 92.89 wt% with an acid value of 0.23 mg KOH/g was obtained at optimum conditions of methanol/oil ratio, reaction temperature and time of 14.76:1, 61.90 °C and 72.65 min respectively using a catalyst loading of 2.58 wt%. The economic viability of the catalyst was also investigated and results shows that using recovered catalyst from the process gave a biodiesel yield of over 89 wt% after two successive cycles. 

Understanding the Surface Reactivity of Ligand-Protected Metal Nanoparticles for Biomass Upgrading
Ligand-protected metal nanoparticles are widely used in heterogeneous catalysis and biomass upgrading. Thiolate surfactants can greatly improve the overall yield; however, the dynamics of the reacting species and the reaction mechanism have remained unknown at the molecular scale. We elucidated the interaction of a series of aromatic compounds with octadecylthiolate-modified palladium nanocatalysts in atomic detail and explain large increases in product selectivity and yield through a detailed reaction mechanism. Molecular dynamics simulations reveal adsorption free energies on the order of -5 kcal/mol on the ligand-modified nanoparticles, which are significantly smaller than those on bare metal surfaces, where -10 to -30 kcal/mol are found. The ligands induce a two-step process of condensation in the ligand shell and adsorption, leading to upright molecular orientations, in contrast to single-step adsorption on bare metal surfaces. Exothermic condensation into the ligand shell and binding to the metal surface are accompanied by large entropy losses due to the reduced mobility in the ligand shell and increased confinement of the alkyl chains. Results from molecular dynamics simulations using the interface force field (IFF) show impressive agreement with available thermochemical reference data from experiments. Upright orientations of aromatic alcohol reactants lower the activation energy for the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) reaction and suppress competing decarbonylation reactions. The analysis of the HDO reaction mechanism by QM/MM calculations in the presence of the ligands as well as by DFT calculations under vacuum uncovers the acidic and basic properties of hydrogenated Pd surfaces. The rate-limiting step involves the transfer of Pd-bound hydrogen atoms to hydroxyl groups in the alcohol reactants. The mechanism explains prior experimental data and supports the rational design of metal and alloy catalysts of specific shape, ligand coverage, and reaction conditions for biomass upgrading. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Synthesis, characterization and catalytic performances of activated carbon-doped transition metals during biofuel production from waste cooking oils
This study claimed for describing the synthesis and characterization of activated carbon doped transition metal (Mn, Fe) as effective and economic catalysts during catalytic cracking of waste cooking oil. The presented activated carbon was obtained from Peach crusts as economic, environmental and renewable resource. The prepared activated carbon and its transition metal doped forms were characterized using FTIR, XRD, thermogravimetric analysis, differential thermal analysis and N2-adsorption-desorption measurements. The physical and fuel properties of the obtained biofuels were approved compared to ASTM specifications. The performance of the different biofuel grades in engine tests was improved by blending regular diesel with 10% biofuel (BF10). The brake specific fuel consumption was decreased using BF10 blend. The brake thermal efficiency was also increased for BF10 from 16.21% to 27.25%. The brake specific fuel consumption was increased for BF10 blend compared to regular diesel. Elsevier B.V.

Development of Full-Cycle Utilization of Chlorella sorokiniana Microalgae Biomass for Environmental and Food Purposes
The application of microalgae biomass of Chlorella sorokiniana as environmentally friendly biosorbents for removing potentially toxic elements (PTE) from water and as a source of biofuel has been thoroughly studied. In this paper, we investigate its physicochemical properties infrared spectroscopy (IR spectra), microstructure, adsorption properties); we have managed to isolate the lipid complex, which amounted to 20% of dry biomass. Studies of the lipid complex showed that 80.02% of lipids are unsaturated fatty acids (C18:1, C18:2, C18:3). Additionally, we have investigated the efficiency of using the residual biomass obtained after lipid extraction for water purification from rare-earth metals (REM) and PTE. To increase the sorption properties of residual biomass, its thermal modification was carried out and sorption materials based on heat-treated residual biomass and chitosan were created. The physicochemical and mechanical properties of the obtained sorption materials were studied. The total sorption capacity was 31.9 mg/g for REM and 349.7 mg/g for PTE. Moreover, we propose a new method for the disposal of spent sorbents as additional fuel. Spent sorbents can be considered to be biofuel in terms of energy content (20.7 MJ*kg−1). The results of this study provide the basis for increased use of microalgae. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Co-fermentation of a sugar mixture for microbial lipid production in a two-stage fermentation mode under non-sterile conditions
The economical production of biodiesel from lignocellulose requires an effective co-fermentation of lignocellulose-derived sugars, such as glucose and xylose. Our present work discovered thatLipomyces starkeyiAS 2.1560 could produce microbial lipid effectively from co-fermentation of glucose and xylose in a two-stage culture mode under non-sterile conditions. High lipid production was achieved by a feed-batch fermentation process without sterility in the second fermentation stage. After incubation for 46 h in a bioreactor utilizing unsterile glucose and xylose solution, the cell biomass, lipid and lipid content reached 98.3 g L-1, 62.7 g L-1and 63.8%, respectively. The results showed that the two-stage fermentation method should be a promising process to produce lipid from lignocellulose hydrolysates. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2020.

Propyl-SO3H functionalized graphene oxide as multipurpose solid acid catalyst for biodiesel synthesis and acid-catalyzed esterification and acetalization reactions
A graphene based acid catalyst, GO-PrSO3H, was prepared through a simple two-step process. Surface modification with (3-mercaptopropyl) trimethoxysilane followed by oxidation of sulfide groups led to the production of sulfonic acid sites on graphene oxide nanosheets. The results of various physicochemical techniques approved the synthesis of desired catalyst. The amount of acid sites was measured via the acid-base treatment with triethylamine which exhibited 1.07 mmol/g H+ in the catalyst structure. Two kinds of acid-catalyzed reactions i.e. esterification and acetalization were adopted to evaluate the catalytic performance of prepared catalyst. More than 90% conversion was achieved for butyl acetate production in acetic acid esterification with n-butanol. Moreover, methyl oleate as one of the main components of biodiesel was produced with good yield over the prepared catalyst via oleic acid esterification with methanol. The 1H NMR technique was also conducted to characterize and determine the amount of produced methyl oleate. Finally, the benzaldehyde acetalization with ethylene glycol was performed which high conversion (92%) was obtained at 3 h. The catalyst reusability for both esterification and acetalization reactions demonstrated the catalyst stability after five reaction cycles. 

One-pot synthesis of ZnO nanoparticles supported on halloysite nanotubes for catalytic applications
A versatile catalyst based on halloysite and zinc oxide (HNT@ZnO) was prepared, for the first time, starting from ZnO commercial bulk form as Zn precursor source, in a one-pot procedure. This strategy gives the possibility to obtain small ZnO nanoparticles loaded on the HNT surface without the use of inorganic salts which envisage the removal of undesired anions and therefore a calcination process at high temperature. It was found that the presence of halloysite improved the UV–vis spectral absorption ability of ZnO. The hybrid was successful used as photocatalyst for the methylorange and rhodamine B degradation. In addition, after eight consecutive cycles for the methylorange photodegradation, the hybrid did not exhibit significant reduction in its photocatalytic performances confirming its stability. Based on trapping experiments and calculated energy bands we also proposed a photocatalytic mechanism. Furthermore, to evaluate the versatility of the synthetized HNT@ZnO hybrid, we used it as catalyst for biodiesel production from soybean oil, too. Also, in this case, the hybrid showed good catalytic performance and recyclability. Elsevier B.V.

Deoxygenation of triolein to green diesel in the H2-free condition: Effect of transition metal oxide supported on zeolite Y
H2-free deoxygenation is a very important process in producing high-quality biofuel without the use of H2 gas supply. Considering the costly price of the noble metals, transition metal (TM) based catalysts are more affordable, and the performance is comparable to the noble metal-based catalyst. In this study, TMO supported on zeolite Y catalysts (Ni-, Cu-, Co-, Zn- and Mn-Y) are prepared via wet-impregnation for deoxygenation of triolein, a model compound of non-edible oil under H2-free condition. The deoxygenation activity of TMO supported on zeolite Y is following the order of Ni-Y &gt; Co-Y &gt; Cu-Y &gt; Mn-Y &gt; Zn-Y. The nickel oxide supported on zeolite-Y (Ni-Y) shows the highest conversion up to 76.21 % with 84.28 % hydrocarbon selectivity after reacted at 380 °C for 2 h. Besides, the selectivity toward diesel range hydrocarbon is 92.61 %. The superior deoxygenation activity of Ni-Y can be related to synergistic effect between the reduced B/L and high hydrogenolysis ability of Ni that promote the decarboxylation reaction, suppress the cracking and polymerization of heavy hydrocarbon. Therefore, Ni-Y is a potential catalyst to obtain high quality green diesel from non-edible oil through catalytic deoxygenation without addition of external H2 source. Elsevier B.V.

Upgrading Prosopis juliflora to biofuels via a two-step pyrolysis – Catalytic hydrodeoxygenation approach
Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) upgrades prosopis juliflora biomass to liquid fuels. We pyrolysed prosopis juliflora to crude bio-oil with 55% oxygen and 10% bound water. NbMo/C catalytically hydrodeoxygenated bio-oil to upgraded oil, light oil, gas, and biochar. After 1 h at 300 °C and a catalyst/oil ratio of 0.05, the upgraded bio-oil yield reached 42%. Oxygen and moisture content dropped to 19% and 0.1%. The latter two properties were independent of temperature between 275 °C and 325 °C while yield was optimal at 300 °C. The upgraded oil fuel properties - viscosity (3.2 mm2/s at 40 °C), density (0.98 g/cc at 15 °C), HHV (30 MJ/kg), and stability at room temperature were improved after HDO. A GC–MS detected monomers (39% yield), one-third which were oxygen-free. The oil yield dropped 5% after 5 cycles. Coke contributed most to deactivation but air combusted it at 380 °C. NbMo/C is an efficient catalyst to upgrade bio-oil to bio-fuels.

Efficient no-glycerol biodiesel production using a novel biotemplated hierarchical porous-structure CaO(O)
BACKGROUND: In order to obtain an effective solid base with high surface area and hierarchical distribution of pore size, CaO(O) was synthesized via an exotemplating method, using radish as template and calcium acetate as precursor. RESULTS: The CaO(O) obtained by calcination of the impregnated biomorphic template demonstrated effective catalytic activity for the coupling transesterification of vegetable oil to produce biodiesel under mild reaction conditions using tri-components (methanol, oil and methyl acetate) as resources. High yield of biodiesel, 98.6%, was obtained with a molar rapeseed oil/methyl acetate/methanol ratio of 1:1:8 under 65 °C at 2 h, which is greatly shorter than 6 h over commercial calcium oxide (CaO). CONCLUSION: Various techniques including nitrogen physical adsorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR), thermogravimetric (TG), carbon dioxide-chemical adsorption and morphology have been employed to characterize the samples. These results demonstrated that the synthesized CaO derived from plant template has a large surface area and various pore diameter distribution which cause hierarchical basic sites over the solid base. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

Pretreatment of sugarcane bagasse using two different acid-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles: A novel approach for high sugar recovery
Pretreatment is one of the most important steps in the production of bioethanol from renewable feedstocks like lignocellulosic biomass, however, existing pretreatment approaches have some limitations. In this context, two different acid-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) i.e. alkylsulfonic acid (Fe3O4-MNPs@Si@AS) and butylcarboxylic acid (Fe3O4-MNPs@Si@BCOOH) were synthesized and evaluated for their efficacy at different concentration in the pretreatment of sugarcane bagasse. It was observed that both of these acid-functionalized MNPs showed concentration-dependent promising catalytic activity as compared to conventional acid pretreatment. Both Fe3O4-MNPs@Si@AS and Fe3O4-MNPs@Si@BCOOH at 500 mg/g of bagasse showed the maximum amount of sugar (xylose) liberated i.e. 18.83 g/L and 18.67 g/L, respectively which are comparatively higher than the normal acid pretreatment (15.40 g/L) and untreated sample (0.28 g/L). Further, both the acid-functionalized MNPs used were recovered by applying magnetic field and reused for next two subsequent cycles of pretreatment. Therefore, such nanotechnology-based approaches can be used as a rapid and eco-friendly alternative method for the pretreatment of a variety of lignocellulosic materials. Moreover, the reuse of the same MNPs for more than one cycle of pretreatment can also help to reduce the cost involved in the process. 

Fabrications of metal organic frameworks derived hierarchical porous carbon on carbon nanotubes as efficient bioanode catalysts of NAD+-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase
Herein, we developed an efficient anode catalyst for alcohol biofuel cell by integrating multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) into an isoreticular metal organic framework derived porous carbon. The derived porous carbon (PC) intercalated by MWCNTs (PC/MWCNTs) serviced as the anode component in catalyzing the electrooxidation of reduced β-Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), enabling catalysis to ethanol electrooxidation by alcohol dehydrogenase with NAD+ as both free coenzyme and electron transfer mediators (onset potential, 0.14 V vs. SCE, pH 8.0). Hierarchy of PC/MWCNTs with micro-, meso-, and macropores provides improved immobilization of electroactive enzymes, aids the facile transportations of electrolyte and increases the conductivity and specific surface areas of anode and results in a much higher catalytic current density for NADH (1.17 mA cm−2 for 10 mM NADH, pH 9.0) and alcohol bioanode (maximum steady-state current density, 0.25 ± 0.03 mA cm−2, pH 8.0) than its singular component analogues (PC and MWCNTs). The high Michaelis-Menten constant (166 ± 16.8 mM) favorites the detection of ethanol at high concentrations. The linear range of ethanol is 10–300 mM, with the sensitivity and detection limit as 24 nA mM−1 and 3 mM. The study applies porous carbon nanomaterials as both electrocatalysts for coenzyme and scaffolds for enzymes, benefiting to feasible constructions of bioelectrodes with notable current densities. 

Temperature-responsive Solid Acid Catalyst for Cellulose Hydrolysis to HMF
Conversion of cellulose to the platform chemical, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), is of importance to the manufacture of a variety of bio-chemicals and biofuels. However, low mass and heat transfer between a solid catalyst and the cellulose particles severely hampers the efficiency of cellulose conversion. In effort to conquer the obstacle, a series of N-doped mesoporous carbon materials (MCNs) were prepared and employed to catalyze cellulose to HMF by use of the temperature-responsive HCl-releasing effect of MCNs. In this way, acid-base dual catalytic environments can be constructed for efficient conversion of cellulose to HMF. MCN-2-DH⋅nHCl is capable of adsorbing chemically 1.07 mmol HCl/g at room temperature and releasing about 1.01 mmol HCl/g when being heated to 220 °C. It is found that MCN-2-DH⋅nHCl is an excellent catalyst for cellulose conversion, yielding 52.6% HMF, 27.6% reducing sugars and 4.1% levulinic acid with a cellulose conversion of 96.4% after reacting at 220 °C for 80 min. A total carbon yield of 84.3% can be achieved. Moreover, four times of recycling tests demonstrate that MCN-2-DH⋅nHCl possesses good temperature-responsive stability in aqueous solution. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Highly selective Co3O4/silica-alumina catalytic system for deoxygenation of triglyceride-based feedstock
The catalytic deoxygenation of biomass to produce renewable carbon energy addresses major concerns of limited energy sources. In particular, the second-generation biodiesel by selective deoxygenation possesses a higher cetane number, lower cloud point, and higher oxidation stability compared to the fatty acid ester-based biodiesel, and therefore, can be fed directly to the current diesel engines. In present work, we address the significant concerns of cost-effectiveness, high hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) selectivity, modest hydrogen environments, and solvent-free condition using high surface area silica-alumina-supported cobalt oxide nanoparticles as a catalyst to produce fuel-grade hydrocarbons from fatty acid-based feeds that are palm oil and jatropha oil. The catalytic performance is tested for methyl stearate to achieve the best conversion efficiency with remarkable deoxygenation selectivity. The HDO selectivity was as high as 87% at 250 °C and 30 bar H2 pressure, whereas moderate HDO selectivity with relatively higher cracking was observed at 300 °C and 2 bar H2 pressure. Remarkably, the HDO selectivity was comparable in the absence of solvent. The catalyst is recyclable with low metal leaching during the deoxygenation. The use of non-noble metal catalysts under solvent-free conditions offers facile production of fuel-grade hydrocarbons. 

Hydrothermal liquefaction of low-lipid algae Nannochloropsis sp. and Sargassum sp.: Effect of feedstock composition and temperature
Low-lipid content algae have demonstrated potential in the bio-crude production because of their high yield and robust ability to adapt to hostile cultivation environment in mass cultivation. Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) technology is an effective method to convert wet algae to bio-crudes directly. In this study, the HTL processes of two low-lipid content algae, Nannochloropsis sp. and Sargassum sp., were investigated under various reaction temperatures (260–320 °C). Results showed that the bio-crudes yield of Nannochloropsis sp. (39.05 wt% to 54.11 wt%) was significantly higher than that of Sargassum sp. (3.11 wt% to 9.49 wt%). The higher heating value of Nannochloropsis sp. (35.92 MJ/kg to 37.88 MJ/kg) were also slightly higher than that of Sargassum sp., (33.63 MJ/kg to 35.23 MJ/kg). GC–MS analyses showed that Nannochloropsis sp. bio-crude mainly contained amides and N-heterocyclic compounds while Sargassum sp. bio-crude mainly contained N-heterocyclic compounds and ketones. Alcohols were the major aqueous phase compounds for both algae. For Nannochloropsis sp., glycerin accounted for the largest proportion in alcohols, while dianhydromannitol and 1,5-anhydro-D-mannitol were the major alcohols component for Sargassum sp. Based on the compositions of the HTL products and the feedstock, a reaction pathway network of the HTL process of low-lipid algae was proposed in this study. Amino acids related interactions like acylation and Maillard reaction were prominent in HTL process of these two algae, which effectively converted protein and carbohydrate compounds into bio-crudes.

Spatio-temporal analyses of extracted citrullus colocynthis seeds (Handal seed oil) as biofuel in internal combustion engine
Herein Handal oil extraction from waste biomass is investigated for biodiesel production via esterification and transesterification processes. Furthermore, the physicochemical characteristics of Handal biodiesel (density, kinematic viscosity, specific gravity, pour point, flash point, and cloud point) was performed along with testing the fuel quality used in internal combustion engines. The flash point of the obtained Handal biodiesel (49.5 °C) was lower than that of petroleum diesel (68.3 °C). While at 40 °C, the kinematic viscosity of used Handal oil (4.476 cSt), which was higher than that of diesel fuel (2.6 cSt) and fossil diesel (2.27 cSt). Pourpoint of the used Handal oil was −9 and lower than that of Handal biodiesel, which is +3. The sulfur content of Handal oils was 193 mg/kg, which was higher than the Handal biodiesel value of 62 mg/kg, but significantly lower than that of diesel fuels (≤100 ppm). Similar engine performance regarding thermal efficiency between pure diesel and biodiesel at different engine speeds and loads was detected. The utilisation of such waste stream (Handal wild plant) in the production of biodiesel fuel will aid upcycling an otherwise waste and problematic thermochemical conversion feedstock by adding value for the application in the energy sector. 

Cocoa pod husk-plantain peel blend as a novel green heterogeneous catalyst for renewable and sustainable honne oil biodiesel synthesis: A case of biowastes-to-wealth
The present study investigated honne oil methyl esters (HOME) production from crude honne seed oil (HSO) using a novel catalyst synthesized from a blend of cocoa pod husk and plantain peel. A two-step esterification-transesterification method was used for the HOME production. For the esterification, the crude HSO was pretreated with H2SO4 to reduce its very high acid value to an acceptable level prior to transesterification to biodiesel. Characterization of the calcined cocoa pod husk-plantain peel ash (CCPA) showed that K (50.95%), Mg (2.49%) and Ca (2.30%) were the major metals present, thereby confirming its heterogeneity. Physisorption isotherms obtained for the CCPA indicate it is composed of nanoparticles that are mesoporous in nature. The initial high acid value of the oil (35.5 g KOH/g oil) was reduced to 1.68 ± 0.57 g KOH/g oil via esterification at a temperature of 65 °C, MeOH:HSO molar ratio of 50:1 and H2SO4 of 2 vol% after 2.5 h. The best operating condition that gave maximum HOME yield (98.98 ± 0.04 wt%) was CCPA amount of 4.5 wt%, reaction temperature of 65 °C, time of 2.5 h and MeOH:pretreated HSO molar ratio of 15:1. The HOME produced satisfied standard limits set for biodiesel. 

2D hematene, a bioresorbable electrocatalytic support for glucose oxidation
Towards the aim of developing implantable and fully biodegradable sensors and biofuel cells, 2D nanosheets of hematite have been exfoliated and processed into electrode materials for glucose sensing. Gold, (Au) nanoparticles were electrodeposited onto the 2D substrate to develop a sensitive non-enzymatic glucose sensor. Despite a low loading of a catalyst, the composite achieved a sensitivity of 10 μA mM-1 cm-2, good linearity (0-3.2 mM) with a detection limit of 0.4 mM, a response time of less than 10 s, and long-term performance stability. These results make Au/Fe2O3 hematene nanosheet, a promising catalytic material not only for glucose monitoring but also from which to construct biofuel cells using glucose as fuel. IOP Publishing Ltd.

Conversion of waste cooking oil into biodiesel using heterogenous catalyst derived from cork biochar
In this study, a heterogeneous catalyst prepared by pyrolysis of waste cork (Quercus suber) was used for the transesterification of waste cooking oil (WCO). Physicochemical properties of the synthesized biochar catalyst were studied using BET, SEM, FTIR, and XRD. The experiment results demonstrate that heterogeneous catalyst synthesized at 600 °C showed maximum fatty acids methyl esters (FAMEs) conversion (98%) at alcohol:oil (25:1), catalyst loading (1.5% w/v) and temperature 65 °C. Biodiesel produced from WCO (Canola oil) mainly composed of FAMEs in following order C18:1 > C18:2 > C16:0 > C18:0 > C20:0. Properties of produced biodiesel were analysed as cetane number (CN) 50.56, higher heating value (HHV) 39.5, kinematic viscosity (ʋ) 3.9, and density (ρ) 0.87. 

Synthesis and characterization of functionalized NaP Zeolite@CoFe2O4 hybrid materials: a micro–meso-structure catalyst for aldol condensation
In this work, magnetic nanocomposite of NaP Zeolite and CoFe2O4 as magnetic nanoparticles (MNP’s) with different ratios were prepared and in the second step functionalized with 2-aminopyridine as a basic group. All samples were characterized by FT-IR, XRD, VSM, FESEM, EDX, TEM, and BET and thermal analyses. The results show that CoFe2O4 MNP’s was dispersed on NaP Zeolite without any significant aggregation with particle size about 30–50 nm. The BET and TEM confirmed the presence of mesoporous phase in the surface of NaP Zeolite/CoFe2O4 and preparation a micro–meso-structure. The NaP Zeolite/CoFe2O4 and NaP Zeolite/CoFe2O4/Am-Py were used as acid–base catalysts for aldol condensation of cyclohexanone with benzaldehyde, and furfural with acetone which produce curcumin and biofuel intermediates, respectively, in solvent-free condition. The effect of different factors such as the percent of CoFe2O4 MNP’s, catalyst amount, solvent, time and temperature was investigated. The catalyst was easily separated with an external magnet and reused four times without significant change in the yield. These catalysts have various advantages including high loading capacity, low leaching for CoFe2O4 MNP’s and simple and efficient recovery procedure which can be used under mild and ecofriendly condition., Springer Nature B.V.

Bifunctional CuNi/CoOx catalyst for mild-temperature in situ hydrodeoxygenation of fatty acids to alkanes using isopropanol as hydrogen source
Bifunctional CumNin/CoOx catalysts were fabricated by co-precipitation method and applied in in-situ hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of biomass derived oleic acid to n-heptadecane with isopropanol as hydrogen source. Upon incorporating Cu or Ni into CoOx, the catalytic performance could be easily boosted. By varying Cu/Ni ratio, reduction temperature as well as catalyst loading, the optimized Cu1Ni1/CoOx exhibited &gt;99% conversion and 91.3% n-heptadecane yield at 240 °C in 8 h. Characterizations showed that synergistic effect between Cu, Ni and CoOx was existed, thus strengthening H2 production ability towards isopropanol and favoring the generation of n-heptadecane. Kinetic studies revealed HDO of oleic acid to alkane mainly proceeded via decarbonylation of stearaldehyde rather than direct decarboxylation of stearic acid, and the rate determining step relied on octadecanol dehydrogenation. This catalyst could be magnetically separated for 5 times recycling and was versatile for in situ HDO of various fatty acids, thus achieving a low-cost, energy-saving biomass-to-biofuel conversion. 

Microwave-Assisted Biodiesel Production from Microalgae, Scenedesmus Species, Using Goat Bone–Made Nano-catalyst
The production of biodiesel from Scenedesmus algal oil is one of the best alternative forms of liquid fuel production from biomass to petrol diesel. Biodiesel plays a significant role in the carbon sequestration process during cultivation. Scenedesmus algal species was isolated and cultured in a bold basal medium by using nonheat releasing white florescence (2500 lx) for a 12:12-h dark and light cycle. Algae oil was extracted from dried microalgae biomass through a microwave digester–assisted solvent extraction method. Consequently, about 20.8% algal oil per gram was obtained. A waste-based calcium oxide (CaO) nano-catalyst prepared from goat bone was used in the transesterification process. The catalyst was calcinated at 900 °C and characterized using FTIR, SEM, EDX, and XRD techniques. The results revealed a mean particle size of 43.96 nm with an irregular shape, porous structure, and possession of many active sites. The optimized transesterification process offers an optimum biodiesel yield of 92% at the experimental conditions, i.e., at a reaction temperature of 60 °C, 2% (Wt.) catalyst loading and 11:1 methanol to algal oil molar ratio, 1500 rpm stirring speed, and 3 h reaction duration. The physicochemical properties of the produced biodiesel were tested according to ASTM D6751 standards and are in good agreement., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Coating and incorporation of iron oxides into a magnetic-polymer composite to be used as lipase support for ester syntheses
The utilization of novel materials within the scope of biofuel synthesis has been represented as a significant step in the development of remarkable catalysts. The use of lipases in biodiesel production is often found as a cost-limiting step, as the operational expenditures in recovering such catalysts may lead to unfeasible market expectations. Herein, magnetic-polymer composites were evaluated as supports to immobilize commercial lipase, following the application in ethyl ester syntheses. A matrix of polysiloxane-polyvinyl alcohol (SiO2-PVA) was selected as the polymeric structure, following Fe3O4 and γFe2O3 coating and incorporation assays to the support backbone. Characterization of the produced catalyst support materials was performed via analysis of X-ray powder diffraction, pore size, Scanning electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and vibrating sample magnetometry. Burkholderia cepacia was then immobilized on the matrices, following transesterification of coconut oil with ethanol. The biodiesel samples generated were all within commercial standards, achieving conversion ester contents higher than 96.5%. The purified product samples (biodiesel) were essentially odorless and translucent appearance. Other properties such as density (873–876 kg m−3) and viscosity (3.76–3.93 mm2 s−1) meet the specifications required by the ASTM to be used as a biofuel. 

Artificial neural network modeling of performance, emission, and vibration of a CI engine using alumina nano-catalyst added to diesel-biodiesel blends
In recent years, added nano-catalysts to fuels has improved their thermo-physical properties. In present study, the alumina as additive with concentrations of 30, 60, and 90 ppm were added to B5 and B10 blends for evaluation of the engine performance, emissions, and vibration levels. An ANN model based on standard back-propagation learning algorithm for the engine was developed. Multi-layer perception network (MLP) was used for a non-linear mapping between the input and target parameters. The input or independent parameters were fuel blend, engine speed, fuel density, fuel viscosity, LHV, intake manifold pressure, fuel consumption, exhaust gas temperature, oxygen contained in exhaust gases, oil temperature, relative humidity, and ambient air pressure. Whereas, the target parameters separately were engine power, torque, emissions of CO, CO2, UHC, NO, RMS and Kurtosis of engine's vibration. The results for optimum ANN model showed, the training algorithm of back-propagation with 25-25 neurons in hidden layers (logsig-logsig) is able to predict different parameters of engine for different conditions. The corresponding R-values for training, validation and testing were 0.9999, 0.9994 and 0.9995, respectively. The performance and accuracy of the proposed ANN model was completely satisfactory. 

Improved Pd/Ru metal supported graphene oxide nano-catalysts for hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of vanillyl alcohol, vanillin and lignin
Pd and Ru nanoparticles supported on graphene oxide (GO) [Pd@GO and Ru@GO] and bimetallic [Pd/Ru@GO] were prepared and well characterized by XRD, FT-IR, EDS, TEM, XPS and ICP-AES analyses. The prepared nano-catalysts were tested for hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin monomer molecules-vanillyl alcohol and vanillin. In comparison with previously reported methods, Ru@GO and bimetallic Pd/Ru@GO catalysts showed high activity and selectivity, under milder conditions, at room temperature and 145 psi H2 pressure, for the formation of p-creosol, a value added product, as a potential future biofuel with antibacterial and anti-insecticidal properties. The multifold advantages of both these catalysts are in terms of reduced catalyst loading with a lower metal content and ambient temperture conditions resulting in higher conversion of the starting material. Furthermore, the efficacy of the developed methodology using Ru@GO and bimetallic Pd/Ru@GO catalysts under the optimized conditions was tested on the phenolic components of commercial lignin obtained by photo-catalytic fragmentation using TiO2, to obtain a mixture after HDO which contained vanillyl alcohol and p-creosol among others, as indicated by HPLC-MS analysis. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Lipase immobilized on functionalized superparamagnetic few-layer graphene oxide as an efficient nanobiocatalyst for biodiesel production from Chlorella vulgaris bio-oil
Background: Microalgae, due to its well-recognized advantages have gained renewed interest as potentially good feedstock for biodiesel. Production of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) as a type of biodiesel was carried out from Chlorella vulgaris bio-oil. Biodiesel was produced in the presence of nano-biocatalysts composed of immobilized lipase on functionalized superparamagnetic few-layer graphene oxide via a transesterification reaction. A hybrid of few-layer graphene oxide and Fe3O4 (MGO) was prepared and characterized. The MGO was functionalized with 3-aminopropyl triethoxysilane (MGO-AP) as well as with a couple of AP and glutaraldehyde (MGO-AP-GA). The Rhizopus oryzae lipase (ROL) was immobilized on MGO and MGO-AP using electrostatic interactions as well as on MGO-AP-GA using covalent bonding. The supports, MGO, MGO-AP, and MGO-AP-GA, as well as nano-biocatalyst, ROL/MGO, ROL/MGO-AP, and ROL/MGO-AP-GA, were characterized using FESEM, VSM, FTIR, and XRD. The few-layer graphene oxide was characterized using AFM and the surface charge of supports was evaluated with the zeta potential technique. The nano-biocatalysts assay was performed with an evaluation of kinetic parameters, loading capacity, relative activity, time-course thermal stability, and storage stability. Biodiesel production was carried out in the presence of nano-biocatalysts and their reusability was evaluated in 5 cycles of transesterification reaction. Results: The AFM analysis confirmed the few-layer structure of graphene oxide and VSM also confirmed that all supports were superparamagnetic. The maximum loading of ROL (70.2%) was related to MGO-AP-GA. The highest biodiesel conversion of 71.19% achieved in the presence of ROL/MGO-AP-GA. Furthermore, this nano-biocatalyst could maintain 58.77% of its catalytic performance after 5 cycles of the transesterification reaction and was the best catalyst in the case of reusability. Conclusions: In this study, the synthesized nano-biocatalyst based on bare and functionalized magnetic graphene oxide was applied and optimized in the process of converting microalgae bio-oil to biodiesel for the first time and compared with bare lipase immobilized on magnetic nanoparticles. Results showed that the loading capacity, kinetic parameters, thermal stability, and storage stability improved by the functionalization of MGO. The biocatalysts, which were prepared via covalent bonding immobilization of enzyme generally, showed better characteristics. The Author(s).

Unsupported Ni metal catalyst in hydrothermal liquefaction of oak wood: Effect of catalyst surface modification
Hydrothermal liquefaction of oak wood was carried out in tubular micro reactors at different temperatures (280–330 °C), reaction times (10–30 min), and catalyst loads (10–50 wt%) using metallic Ni catalysts. For the first time, to enhance the catalytic activity of Ni particles, a coating technique producing a nanostructured surface was used, maintaining anyway the micrometric dimension of the catalyst, necessary for an easier recovery. The optimum conditions for non-catalytic liquefaction tests were determined to be 330 °C and 10 min with the bio-crude yield of 32.88%. The addition of metallic Ni catalysts (Commercial Ni powder and nanostructured surface-modified Ni particle) increased the oil yield and inhibited the char formation through hydrogenation action. Nano modified Ni catalyst resulted in a better catalytic activity in terms of bio-crude yield (36.63%), thanks to the higher surface area due to the presence of flower-like superficial nanostructures. Also, bio-crude quality resulted improved with the use of the two catalysts, with a decrease of C/H ratio and a corresponding increase of the high heating value (HHV). The magnetic recovery of the catalysts and their reusability was also investigated with good results.

Transesterification of waste edible oils to biodiesel using calcium oxide@magnesium oxide nanocatalyst
In the present research, application of waste edible oil (WEO) as a suitable and abundant source for biodiesel production using CaO@MgO nanocatalyst derived from waste chicken eggshells was studied. To this end, FT-IR, XRD, SEM, EDX, Map, and TEM analyses were performed to investigate characteristics of the CaO@MgO nanocatalyst. Also, the physical properties of the biodiesel such as flash point, kinematic viscosity, density, distillation point, cloud point, pour point, cetane number, oxidation stability, and acid number were determined according to the international standards. In addition, FT-IR and HNMR analyses were used to determine the biodiesel characteristics. Moreover, the produced catalyst was successively reused for up to 6 cycles and the results showed that the catalytic activity of the catalyst produced was sufficient for biodiesel production from WEO for up to three cycles, beyond which its catalytic activity decreased. The present work further considered the effects of different parameters on biodiesel production using central composite design to determine optimal conditions. According to the results, the highest biodiesel conversion yield (98.37%) was achieved in a reaction time of 7.08 h, reaction temperature of 69.37 °C, methanol-to-oil ratio of 16.7:1, and catalyst concentration of 4.571 wt% which shows the highest biodiesel conversion yield ever achieved from waste edible oil. 

Ethanol addition during aqueous phase recirculation for further improving bio-oil yield and quality
The increase of nitrogen content caused by the re-polymerization of nitrogenous compounds remains an important challenge during aqueous phase recirculation in the water solvent. In this work, aqueous phase recirculation was conducted in the ethanol-water solvent to evaluate the feasibility of ethanol addition in inhabiting the re-polymerization of nitrogenous compounds. The present study provides a comprehensive comparison of yield and quality between bio-oils derived from aqueous phase recirculation in the water solvent and ethanol-water solvent. The results showed that the addition of ethanol in aqueous phase recirculation displayed higher promotion in bio-oil yield (7%) compared with water solvent (3.55%). The energy recovery efficiency of bio-oil from ethanol-water solvent reached 87.43% after recirculation for three times, while that from the water solvent was 74.61%. The elemental analysis and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis indicated that ethanol addition could inhibit the re-polymerization of nitrogenous compounds and thus decrease the nitrogen content in bio-oil. This resulted in lower NO and HCN emission peaks during the combustion process. Besides, the addition of ethanol increased the content of light molecular weight fractions and decreased the coke formation, which contributed to complete combustion and resulted in lower CO emission peaks. Overall, this work provides a feasible way for further improving the bio-oil yield and fuel quality through ethanol addition in solvent during aqueous phase recirculation. 

Bimetal Co8Ni2 catalyst supported on chitin-derived N-containing carbon for upgrade of biofuels
Non-noble bimetallic Co8Ni2/NC nanoalloy catalyst is prepared through impregnation of cobalt and nickel precursors on nitrogen doped carbon derived from sustainable chitin. Compared to monometallic Co or Ni catalyst and other reported materials, Co8Ni2/NC catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic activity, high selectivity and good stability towards vanillin hydrodeoxygenation to obtain 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP), a promising way of upgrade biofuel. Characterizations indicate that the active f.c.c. phase of metal alloy can be generated under the induction of nickel component. Kinetic experiment suggests that the activation energy vanillin alcohol over bimetal catalysts are lower than pure nickel or cobalt catalyst, confirming that the synergetic effect between cobalt and nickel also improve its higher catalytic activity.

Free-H2 deoxygenation of Jatropha curcas oil into cleaner diesel-grade biofuel over coconut residue-derived activated carbon catalyst
Diesel-like hydrocarbons were produced by the catalytic deoxygenation (DO) of Jatropha curcas oil (JCO) over novel Agx/AC and Niy-Agx/AC catalysts under an H2-free atmosphere. The AC was synthesized from coconut fibre residues (CFR), where CFR is the by-product from coconut milk extraction and is particularly rich in soft fibres with high mineral content. The Niy-Agx/AC catalyst afforded higher DO activity via the decarboxylation/decarbonylation (deCOx) route than Agx/AC due to the properties of Ni, synergistic interaction of Ni and Ag species, adequate amount of strong acid sites and large number of weak acid sites, which cause extensive C-O cleavage and lead to rich formation of n-(C15+C17) hydrocarbons. The effect of Ag and Ni content were studied within the 5 to 15 wt% range. An optimum Ni and Ag metal content (5 wt%) for deCOx reaction was observed. Excess Ni is not preferable due to a tendency for cracking and Ag-rich containing catalyst weakly enforced triglycerides breaking. The Ni5-Ag5/AC govern exclusively decarbonylation reaction, which corroborates the presence of Ni2+ species and a high amount of strong acid sites. Ultimately, Ni5-Ag5/AC in the present study shows excellent chemical stability with consistent five reusability without drastic reduction of hydrocarbon yield (78–95%) and n-(C15+C17) selectivity (82–83%), which indicate favourable application in JCO DO.

Possibilities of using alcohol distillates as heating fuel [Możliwości wykorzystania destylatów alkoholowych jako paliwa opałowego]
Growing demand for widely understood clean energy cause the search for zero-emission fuels (not increasing the amount of greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere). Undertaken in Europe and in the world initiatives in limiting the use of coal tend to use bioalcohols as fuels and predict an increase of usage of this type of fuel. The article presents production technologies of selected alcohol mixtures. Raw materials, particular stages of production were characterized in the article. In addition, the possibility of using waste raw materials containing a lignocellulose complex for the production of ethyl alcohol was also presented. The structure of the lignocellulose complex, production stages and main problems of the ethanol production process from this type of raw materials were described. Attention was drawn to the ongoing research for methods to produce ethyl alcohol in chemical reactions (e.g. by using nanocatalysts), in which greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide) are the substrate. An analysis of regulations and legal restrictions that may affect the possibility of using alcohol distillates (bioethanol, spirit, ethyl alcohol, methyl alcohol and mixtures thereof) for heating purposes was carried out. Since Poland is a member state of the European Union, the analysis considered national and EU regulations. In addition, ways of using alcohol distillates (ethyl alcohol, spirit, bioethanol) as a component for fuel mixtures or spontaneous fuel were presented. The combustion process of selected alcoholic distillates, with or without contaminants, was characterized. Emission factor for different emissions in the household sector depending on burned fuel were presented. Two groups of household appliances powered with alcohol fuel, currently available to consumers on the market, were distinguished. Their possibilities and limitations of use, functionality were described. In conclusions, the results of the analyses methods of alcoholic distillate production and legal provisions (national and EU) were summarized. In addition, the authors predict the positive impact of the production and usage of ethyl alcohol for heating purposes., Oil and Gas Institute – National Research Institute. All rights reserved.

Synthesis of nickel/biochar composite from pyrolysis of Microcystis aeruginosa and its practical use for syngas production
This study proposes a sustainable waste-to-energy/biochar platform using a toxic microalgal biomass waste. In particular, CO2-feeding pyrolysis of Microcystis aeruginosa (M. aeruginosa) waste was investigated, focusing on the analysis of gaseous pyrolysates and properties of biochar with a construction of mass balance. Also, the catalytic capability of biochar produced from M. aeruginosa was explored to reinforce the mechanistic impact of CO2 on the pyrolysis process within the overall process level. Ni impregnated biochar composite was further synthesized and used as a catalyst to promote syngas formation in the CO2-feeding pyrolysis process of M. aeruginosa. 

Catalytic hydrolysis of cellulose to total reducing sugars with superior recyclable magnetic multifunctional MCMB-based solid acid as a catalyst
BACKGROUND: Effective cellulose hydrolysis has a huge potential for producing high value-added biomass-based platform chemicals, such as glucose, hydroxymethylfurfural, levulinic acid, and total reducing sugars (TRS). Particularly, a magnetic multifunctional solid acid catalyst (Fe3O4/Cl–MCMB–SO3H) was synthesized by loading the active groups on the magnetic mesocarbon microbead (MCMB) derived from the co-calcination of coal tar pitch and ferroferric oxide, which was applied as a catalyst in the conversion of cellulose into TRS. RESULTS: Given the superior properties of MCMB, a novel magnetic MCMB-based solid acid with cellulose-binding domain (–Cl group) and catalytic domain (–SO3H group) was successfully prepared. Results indicated that this catalyst exhibited superior catalytic activity, recyclability and regenerability, and easy separation from the reactant. The acidic densities of –SO3H and –Cl in Fe3O4/Cl–MCMB–SO3H reached 1.77 and 1.32 mmol/g, respectively. The 68.6% TRS yield can be obtained from cellulose at 140 °C for 3 h in distilled water by using Fe3O4/Cl-MCMB-SO3H as the catalyst. The TRS yield still reached 61.1% after the catalyst was used six times. Importantly, through catalyst regeneration, the –SO3H density and TRS yield still reached 1.69 mmol/g and 67.3%, indicating that the catalyst exhibited excellent regenerability. CONCLUSION: Such multifunctional magnetic catalyst would be a promising catalyst in the conversion of cellulose into biofuels, which was attributed to the efficient catalytic performance, magnetism, and excellent recyclability and regenerability. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

Hot water-promoted catalyst-free reductive cycloamination of (bio-)keto acids with HCOONH4 toward cyclic amides
Controllable functionalization of targeted oxygen-containing species of biomass feedstocks is one of the prevalent approaches to biofuels and important chemicals, and well-designed functional catalytic materials are typically required to promote the smooth proceeding of the desired conversion processes. In this work, HCOONH4 was demonstrated to be capable of acting as both hydrogen and nitrogen source in the absence of any catalyst and additive for the reductive cycloamination of bio-based levulinic acid (LA) to 5-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (MPL) with more than 90 % in just 60 min at 180 °C. Pressurized hot water remarkably enabled the reaction efficiency and rate by promoting the hydrolysis of HCOONH4 to liberate ammonia and formic acid for the cascade reactions, and this catalyst-free protocol is also applicable to the efficient synthesis of various cyclic amides from relevant keto acids. Moreover, the reaction pathways were investigated by conducting deuterium-labeling experiments and kinetic studies of selected reactions. Elsevier B.V.

Valorization of rice husk silica waste: Organo-amine functionalized castor oil templated mesoporous silicas for biofuels synthesis
Rice husk is a rich source of waste silica which has potential for application in the preparation of porous materials for use as catalyst supports or sorbents. Here we report on the synthesis of rice husk silica (RHS) and mesoporous templated rice husk silica (MT-RHS) using sodium silicate, obtained from rice husk ash, and castor oil as a pore directing agent. The resulting silicas were functionalized with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTS) or 3-diethylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane (DEPA), and their catalytic activity evaluated in the transesterification of model C4–C12 triglycerides (TAG) to their corresponding fatty acid methyl esters, of relevance to biodiesel synthesis. Castor oil templating enhances the surface area of rice husk silica, and introduces uniform 4 nm mesopores, albeit as a disordered pore network. Post-synthetic grafting of silica by APTS or DEPA resulted in base site loadings of 0.5 and 0.8 mmolg−1 respectively on RHS and MT-RHS. Turnover frequencies of amine-functionalized MT-RHS were 45–65% greater than those of their amine-functionalized RHS counterparts for tributyrin transesterification. Switching from a primary (APTS) to tertiary (DEPA) amine increased activity three-fold, delivering 80% tributyrin conversion to methyl butyrate in 6 h. DEPA-MT-RHS was effective for the transesterification of C8 and C12 triglycerides, with methyl caproate and methyl laurate selectivities of 93% and 71% respectively in 24 h.

Optimization and kinetic study of ultrasonic-mediated in situ transesterification for biodiesel production from the almonds of Syagrus cearensis
In this research, the effectiveness of ultrasonic transesterification in situ was appraised with the aim of biodiesel synthesis from almonds of Syagrus cearensis, commonly known as Catolé. This raw material was investigated as an innovative and non-conventional alternative for biodiesel production. S. cearensis appears in this article as an energy source with valuable sustainable factors, allowing for financial savings and low environmental impact compared to fossil fuels. Influences of ultrasonic energy on different process variable were elucidated. An experimental design was applied, employing 4 main factors (type and proportion of catalyst, the proportion of methanol and reaction time) to evaluate the effect of the process variables and determine the optimal conditions for biodiesel production. The present study revealed two main factors interactions, ratio, and type of catalyst, which had significant effects on the ultrasonic-assisted in situ transesterification based on statistical evaluation. The results indicated as optimal conditions: basic catalyst (KOH), 5 wt % catalyst, 1:6 methanol: oil (molar ratio) and reaction time of 30 (min). Besides, a kinetic study exposed that the ultrasonic assistance in situ transesterification reaction complies properly with first-order kinetics and activation energy of 27.53 kJ.mol-1. Yields of up to 99.99% conversion to biodiesel were achieved in the present study. By the results, it is possible to affirm that the in situ transesterification of S. cearensis almonds associated with the ultrasound technique was effective for the production of biodiesel proving the benefit of utilizing S. cearensis a new feedstock for biofuels production in Brazil. 

Ochrocarpus longifolius assisted green synthesis of CaTiO3 nanoparticle for biodiesel production and its kinetic study
In this study, calcium titanate nano-particles (CaTiO3 NPs) were synthesized through solution combustion synthesis (SCS) by using Ochrocarpus longifolius leaves extract as a novel fuel. The CaTiO3 NPs were successfully utilized in the biodiesel synthesis from dairy waste scum oil (DWSO) as a heterogeneous base catalyst. The synthesized CaTiO3 NPs were characterized by SEM, XRD, TEM, BET, FT-IR and CO2-TPD. Response surface methodology (RSM) in arrangement with central composite design (CCD) was utilized to determine the optimum conditions for biodiesel production by varying catalyst loading, molar ratio and reaction time. The maximum 97.7% yield of dairy waste scum oil methyl ester (DWSOME/biodiesel) was obtained for a molar ratio (methanol to DWSO) of 9:1, 1.80 wt% catalyst loading and 45 min reaction time with constant temperature (65 °C) and stirring speed (650 rpm). The CaTiO3 NPs shows a good catalytic stability up to five cycles with a low loss of yield. The kinetic study of biodiesel production fit well to pseudo-first order reaction. For transesterification reaction, the 35.56 kJ/mol of activation energy (Ea) was found. Finally, the DWSOME was characterized by 1H NMR and the fuel properties were also determined and were in the range of ASTM standards. 

AC/CuFe2O4@CaO as a novel nanocatalyst to produce biodiesel from chicken fat
In this work, activated carbon (AC) powder prepared by lotus leaves was impregnated with CuFe2O4 nanoparticles and the AC/CuFe2O4 nanoparticles were then encapsulated with CaO. Therefore, the AC/CuFe2O4@CaO was used as an efficient and novel nanocatalyst to produce biodiesel from chicken fat. In order to determine the physical characteristics of the AC/CuFe2O4@CaO nanocatalyst, a number of analyses were performed, including Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Energy Dispersive X-Ray (EDX), X-Ray Diffractometer (XRD), Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectrometer (FTIR) and Thermal Gravimetric Analysis (TGA) analyses. The results of EDX analysis showed that the catalyst was well synthesized. Also, TEM analysis proved that the catalyst consists of nanoscale particles. In addition, impacts of various factors including methanol/oil molar ratio, catalyst concentration, reaction time and temperature on the produced biodiesel from the chicken fat were investigated. The results showed that the best biodiesel yield of 95.6% could be achieved at a methanol/oil molar ratio of 12:1, catalyst concentration of 3 wt%, reaction time of 4 h, and reaction temperature of 65 °C which was a considerable amount. Moreover, the characteristics of the biodiesel fuel such as density, kinematic viscosity, pour point, flash point, cloud point, Ca content, acid number, and oxidation stability were measured and compared to ASTM D6751 and EN14214 international standards. The results illustrated that biodiesel was not suitable for cold weather, while very good outcomes were observed in terms of the flash point. Besides, biodiesel had density, viscosity, acid number, and oxidation stability within the range of above mentioned standards. 

Effect of nano-fuel additive on performance and emission characteristics of the diesel engine using biodiesel blends with diesel fuel
Biodiesel as an alternative source of petroleum fuel could reduce the dependence on petroleum products and control pollution problems. These biofuels are derived from various sources and if directly used in the engine it will not completely burn and will cause an increase in the emission level. In this experiment, 20% of rubber seed oil (B20) blended with pure diesel fuel along with aluminium oxide (Al2O3) was used in the proportions of 10, 20 and 30 ppm. The obtained experimental results showed that the brake thermal efficiency was increased and the engine emission was reduced. And the brake-specific fuel consumption was reduced, but the NOx level increased at the proportion level at 10 ppm of nano additives. This experiment has been carried out in a single cylinder water-cooled engine connected to an electrical dynamometer without engine modification and the injection pressure and timings were maintained at the standard level designed for the engine. The dynamic energy of aluminium oxide blend with the biodiesel improved the combustion characteristics in the engine, and caused a reduction in carbon deposits by 44.8% in the cylinder wall., Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Microwave-assisted depolymerization of various types of waste lignins over two-dimensional CuO/BCN catalysts
Valorization of lignin to valuable chemicals and biofuels increases the economic viability of sustainable biorefineries. This work aimed at elucidating how the lignin structures recovered from various agricultural and industrial residues governed the downstream catalytic conversion. Three types of lignins, namely bio-enzymatic lignin (BL), organosolv lignin (OL), and Kraft lignin (KL), were fully characterized by HSQC-NMR, TGA, FTIR, and SEM to obtain a detailed description of their structures. In consideration of redox-active CuO and highly active carbon-modified boron nitride (BCN) in oxidative dehydrogenation, a two-dimensional CuO/BCN catalyst was prepared and explored in microwave-assisted lignin conversion to improve the yields of aromatic monomers. BL achieved the highest yield of monomers (10 wt%) over the CuO/BCN catalyst after the 3rd cycle in 30 min under mild conditions (200 °C). The yields of bio-oils reached 70 wt% in 10 min when BL and OL were used as the substrate. High efficiency of the microwave-assisted reaction was illustrated by comparing with that of the hydrothermal reaction. This work demonstrated strong dependence of the conversion efficiency on the interunit linkages and functional groups of lignin structures. The strong metal-support interaction between CuO and BCN not only facilitated lignin depolymerization via the promoted electron transfer, but also enhanced the stability of Cu catalysts under hydrothermal conditions. In addition, elucidation of the catalyst redox evolution shed light on the role of the CuO/BCN catalyst in lignin depolymerization in recycle runs. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Heterogeneous (de)chlorination-enabled control of reactivity in the liquid-phase synthesis of furanic biofuel from cellulosic feedstock
The utilization of polymeric biorenewables for the synthesis of biofuels and essential chemicals is largely obstructed by their recalcitrant structures and complex product distribution. Here, hydrosilane-mediated hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of the furanic mixture 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and 5-chloromethylfurfural (CMF), directly derived from cellulosic biomass, can be enabled by heterogeneous Pd-catalyzed dechlorination to exclusively give the biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) in a high overall yield of 72%. Kinetic and isotope labeling studies supported by computational calculations explicitly elucidate the reaction pathways. The initial dechlorination of CMF into acidic species promotes the rapid in situ formation of relatively stable acetalized and etherified furanic intermediates, which not only greatly accelerate the reactivity of the entire HDO process (TOF: up to 1200 h-1), but are also able to significantly get rid of unwanted side reactions. Importantly, this catalytic system can also be applied for the upgrade of various chlorinated carboxides to produce ortho-, meta- and para-substituted arenes with satisfactory yields of 82-99% at 25-45 °C, and the used commercial Pd/C catalyst is highly recyclable. This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Boosting performance of self-powered biosensing device with high-energy enzyme biofuel cells and cruciform DNA
A self-powered microRNA (miRNA) biosensing device is fabricated with high-energy enzymatic biofuel cell (EBFC) and cruciform DNA (cDNA). Sulfur-selenium co-doped graphene/gold nanoparticles (S–Se-GR/AuNPs) is synthesized and used as supporting substrate of biocathode and bioanode. The glucose oxidase (GOD) molecules are bonded to carboxyl-functionalized AuNPs through the condensation reaction between the amino groups in enzyme and carboxyl groups on the AuNPs to form the bioanode. The ultra-thin porous carbon shell/AuNPs-complementary strand of cDNA (UPCS/AuNPs-cDNA) is meticulously designed. The potassium ferricyanides are then inserted in mesoporous UPCS/AuNPs as the biocathode electron acceptor, and the cruciform DNA bioconjugate is synthesized as signal amplifier. When target miRNA is added, the hybridization reaction happens between miRNA and capture probe DNA on the biocathode to open the capture probe DNA chain. Cruciform DNA bioconjugate is immobilized onto the biocathode through base pairing with the capture DNA on the biocathode, which can release electron acceptor [Fe(CN)6]3-, resulting in the dramatically increase of the open circuit voltage of the EBFCs. The self-powered biosensor responds linearly in the miRNA level range of 0.5–10000 fM with a detection limit of 1.5 × 10−16 mol L−1. Detection of miRNA in spiked serum samples is also realized with the self-powered biosensor, demonstrating its great potential in the clinical applications. 

Dual catalytic functions of biomimetic, atomically dispersed iron-nitrogen doped carbon catalysts for efficient enzymatic biofuel cells
We report that the performance of enzymatic biofuel cell (EBC) can be boosted by exploiting the dual function of iron- and nitrogen-codoped carbon nanotube (Fe–N/CNT) catalysts. The Fe–N/CNT is directly used as a cathode catalyst for oxygen reduction reaction while it is combined with glucose oxidase (GOx) and polyethylenimine (PEI) to form GOx/PEI/[Fe–N/CNT] for catalyzing the overall oxidation reactions including glucose oxidation reaction at the anode. The cathode employing Fe–N/CNT catalyst shows excellent onset potential and current density (0.29 V and of 0.9 mA cm−2). In anode, GOx/PEI/[Fe–N/CNT] shows proper onset potential and current density (0.17 V and 74.3 μA cm−2) with the injection of 8 mM glucose solution. More quantitatively, its Michaelis-Menten constant and maximum current density are 139.4 mM and 347.1 μA cm−2, respectively, and its catalytic activity is well maintained preserving 81.2% of its initial value even after four weeks. The EBC comprising Fe–N/CNT at the cathode and GOx/PEI/[Fe–N/CNT] at the anode exhibits the maximum power density (MPD) of 63 μW cm−2. This is the first report that demonstrates the possibility of the heme mimicking nanocatalyst as both anodic and cathodic catalysts for EBCs. Elsevier B.V.

Effect of different co-solvents on biodiesel production from various low-cost feedstocks using Sr–Al double oxides
The main objective of the present paper comprises the investigation of biodiesel production from low-cost feedstock such as lard oil and waste cooking oil (WCO) using Sr–Al double oxides. Nanocatalyst was characterised FTIR, XRD, SEM, TEM, BET and XPS. The Sr:Al with 3:1 M ratio showed the best catalytic activity in the conversion of both oils to fatty acid methyl ester. The effect of acetone and tetrahydrofuran (THF) as a co-solvent for transesterification were compared and the best result was obtained with 5% THF. The mutual effect of the nanocatalyst and co-solvent on biodiesel production was investigated. The characterisation of biodiesel synthesised from lard oil and WCO was performed with GC-MS, 1H and 13C NMR. Moreover, the optimum reaction parameters for transesterification reaction was analysed and the yield was determined by 1H NMR. The maximum yield of 99.7% and 99.4% of lard oil methyl ester and WCO biodiesel were observed with a 0.9 wt% catalyst amount, 1:5.5 oil to methanol ratio in a reaction time of 45 min at 50 °C and 60 °C, respectively. The properties of biodiesel from lard oil and WCO were determined by the EN 14214 method. The regeneration, characterisation and reusability of regenerated catalyst was observed. 

The enhanced activity of base metal modified MgAl mixed oxides from sol-gel hydrotalcite for ethylic transesterification
MgAl hydrotalcite was successfully prepared through the sol-gel method and modified by in situ addition of base metals (Me = K, Ba, Sr and La). The Me–MgAl hydrotalcites were calcined and the obtained oxides were evaluated as catalysts for ethylic transesterification in order to investigate their potential application for biodiesel production. The Me–MgAl characterization revealed that the materials present different crystalline structures and the metal addition caused surface area reduction and increased the apparent crystallite size. On the other hand, the addition of the base metals to hydrotalcite deeply affected the base properties of the oxides, increasing their catalytic activity. Particularly, the Ba–MgAl presents the highest amount of strong base sites which resulted in a high conversion (≈90%) in the model transesterification reaction between methyl acetate and ethanol. Furthermore, an ester conversion of about 80% was reached in soybean oil transesterification. Moreover, the Ba–MgAl can be reused for 3 batch cycles with low deactivation. These results suggest that Ba–MgAl can be considered a promising heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel production. 

Detoxification of waste hand paper towel hydrolysate by activated carbon adsorption
This study presents 5-hydroxymethylfurfural removal from waste hand paper hydrolysate using activated carbon adsorption. In this context, the effects of adsorbent dosage, initial 5-hydroxymethylfurfural concentration, temperature, and agitation speed on 5-hydroxymethylfurfural adsorption were investigated. Moreover, isotherm and kinetic evaluations were performed using Langmuir, Freundlich, and Temkin models. The experimental data were correlated with zero, first, pseudo-first, and Weber–Morris intraparticle diffusion models. The toxicity of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural was determined using the resazurin reduction assay, and the EC50 of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural in the hydrolysate was found as 192 mg/L. Most convenient 5-hydroxymethylfurfural adsorption was obtained at 5 g/L AC dosage, 40 °C and 150 rpm agitation speed. The highest 5-hydroxymethylfurfural removal efficiency was 92% at 7 g/L AC dosage. The adsorption data fitted best with the Langmuir isotherm model with a maximum uptake capacity of 70.92 mg/g (R2: 0.96). The zero-order reaction kinetic model was the most suitable one among the others inspected. It was determined that intraparticle diffusion was not the rate-limiting step. This study showed that waste hand paper hydrolysate can effectively be detoxified by activated carbon adsorption., Islamic Azad University (IAU).

Optimization and kinetic study of biodiesel production from Hydnocarpus wightiana oil and dairy waste scum using snail shell CaO nano catalyst
The present study is an effort to optimize the production of biodiesel from dairy scum and Hydnocarpus wightiana oil using Snail shell CaO nanocatalyst for transesterification. Response surface methodology is used to optimize the reaction parameter that affects the transesterification process for the biodiesel yield. The CaO nanocatalyst was characterized by powder X-ray diffraction, Scanning Electron Microscopy, Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller, Fourier Transformer Infrared Spectroscopy, Thermo Gravimetric/Differential Thermal Analysis and Atomic Force Microscopy. The maximum biodiesel yield for Scum Oil Methyl Ester and Hydnocarpus wightiana Oil Methyl Ester was (96.929%) and (98.93%) at the optimized condition: Methanol to oil molar ratio 12.7:1 and 12.4:1, catalyst dosage of 0.866 wt.% and 0.892 wt.%, reaction temperature 58.56°C and 61.6°C and reaction time 119.684 min and 145.154 min respectively. A comprehensive kinetic study for the transesterification reaction was performed at different temperatures (50-65°C) for the methanolysis of SO and HWO catalyzed by CaO nanoparticles. A pseudo-first order kinetic reaction was established and the activation energy (Ea) and frequency factor (A) for SO and HWO to be 67.21kJmol-1 & 5.182×108 min-1 & 73.15 kJmol-1 & 4.59×109 min-1 respectively. Recovered CaO nanocatalyst is reused for 5 times with substantial loss in biodiesel yield. 

Recent progress in homogeneous Lewis acid catalysts for the transformation of hemicellulose and cellulose into valuable chemicals, fuels, and nanocellulose
The evolution from petroleum-based products to the bio-based era by using renewable resources is one of the main research challenges in the coming years. Lignocellulosic biomass, consisting of inedible plant material, has emerged as a potential alternative for the production of biofuels, biochemicals, and nanocellulose-based advanced materials. The lignocellulosic biomass, which consists mainly of carbohydrate-based polysaccharides (hemicellulose and cellulose), is a green intermediate for the synthesis of bio-based products. In recent years, the re-engineering of biomass into a variety of commodity chemicals and liquid fuels by using Lewis acid catalysts has attracted much attention. Much research has been focused on developing new chemical strategies for the valorization of different biomass components. Homogeneous Lewis acid catalysts seem to be one of the most promising catalysts due to their astonishing features such as being less corrosive to equipment and being friendlier to the environment, as well as having the ability to disrupt the bonding system effectively and having high selectivity. Thus, these catalysts have emerged as important tools for the highly selective transformation of biomass components into valuable chemicals and fuels. This review provides an insightful overview of the most important recent developments in homogeneous Lewis acid catalysis toward the production and upgrading of biomass. The chemical valorization of the main components of lignocellulosic biomass (hemicellulose and cellulose), the reaction conditions, and process mechanisms are reviewed. Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

Conversion of agricultural waste into stable biocrude using spinel oxide catalysts
Biomass, the feedstock for biocrude and ultimately renewable diesel is a low energy density feedstock. The transport of this feedstock over long distance has been proven to be a major burden on the commercialisation of biorefining. Therefore, it has been generally accepted that biomass should be upgraded to biocrude (a relatively high energy density liquid) in close proximity to the biomass sources. The biocrude liquid would then be transported to a biorefinery. Biocrude contains large amounts of oxygen (generally up to 38 wt%) that is removed from the crude in the refining process. In this study, we have synthesised a range of spinel oxide based catalysts to remove oxygen from the biocrude during the catalytic fast pyrolysis. The activity of spinel oxide (MgB2O4 where B = Fe, Al, Cr, Ga, La, Y, In) catalysts were screened for the pyrolysis reaction. While all the tested spinel oxides deoxygenated the pyrolysis vapour, MgCr2O4 was found to be effective in terms of oxygen removal efficiency relative to the quantity of bio oil produced. Elsevier B.V.

Manganese(I)-Catalyzed β-Methylation of Alcohols Using Methanol as C1 Source
Highly selective β-methylation of alcohols was achieved using an earth-abundant first row transition metal in the air stable molecular manganese complex [Mn(CO)2Br[HN(C2H4PiPr2)2]] 1 ([HN(C2H4PiPr2)2]=MACHO-iPr). The reaction requires only low loadings of 1 (0.5 mol %), methanolate as base and MeOH as methylation reagent as well as solvent. Various alcohols were β-methylated with very good selectivity (&gt;99 %) and excellent yield (up to 94 %). Biomass derived aliphatic alcohols and diols were also selectively methylated on the β-position, opening a pathway to “biohybrid” molecules constructed entirely from non-fossil carbon. Mechanistic studies indicate that the reaction proceeds through a borrowing hydrogen pathway involving metal–ligand cooperation at the Mn-pincer complex. This transformation provides a convenient, economical, and environmentally benign pathway for the selective C−C bond formation with potential applications for the preparation of advanced biofuels, fine chemicals, and biologically active molecules. The Authors. Published by Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA.

Probiotic lipase derived from Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus brevis for biodiesel production from waste cooking olive oil: an alternative feedstock
Lipases from various origins such as fungi and bacteria have been largely explored for various applications including biofuel production. Keeping the environmental and health concerns into consideration, we employed lipases derived from probiotic sources like L. plantarum and L. brevis for biodiesel production from the gold standard fresh and used olive oil. These lipases have been used to optimize various parameters such as molar ratio of methanol to oil, enzyme loading, reaction temperature, and stirring rate that determine the biodiesel yield. The lipases have been explored in their native and immobilized forms in order to obtain maximum biodiesel conversion. Among the two sources of enzymes, lipase derived from L. plantarum is found to be more efficient in biodiesel production. With the optimal reaction conditions, the maximum biodiesel production using immobilized lipase from L. plantarum with fresh and used olive oil is found to be 81% and 67%, respectively. The biodiesel thus obtained has also been studied for its suitability to be used as a fuel in diesel engine that could meet the viscosity and density limits set by ASTM D 6751., Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Effect of pyrolysis temperature on product yields of palm fibre and its biochar characteristics
Rapid population and economic growth causes the demand for energy is increasing every year. A lot of focus has been put on renewable energy as the fossil fuel reserve is expected to last only a few decades. Biomass is recognised as a potential source of renewable energy but however, it usually requires further processing before it can be used. In the present study, biochar was prepared via pyrolysis using palm fibre as the biomass feedstock. This paper provides experimental data for the production of biochar at a temperature range of 300 to 900 °C at a heating rate of 5 °C/min. The obtained biochar was characterised using bomb calorimeter, Micromeritics ASAP 2020 Physisorption BET and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX). The biochar gasification behaviour was studied in a Thermogravimetric Analyzer at temperatures ranging from 600 to 1000 °C. From the pyrolysis experiments, it was found that a good char yield can be obtained at lower pyrolysis temperatures. For the gasification experiment, a temperature of 800 °C and above is required for gasification to take place. Energy consumption can be reduced significantly for future research when employ this operating condition. Properties of solid fuel like char reactivity and carbon conversion under well defined gasifying agent and temperature is necessary for designing any gasifier model. It can be concluded that palm fibre can be upgraded into solid biofuel and has potential to be used as a feedstock for renewable energy production.

Nano-immobilized biocatalysts and their potential biotechnological applications in bioenergy production
Developing highly efficient biocatalyst is a pertinent requirement for biofuels production, in particularly biodiesel/bioethanol. To circumvent the minimal efficiency of conventionally used biocatalysts, nanotechnology paves a way by indulging nanoparticles as carriers of biocatalysts. The nanobiocatalysts so formed are applied as a tool for utilizing wide set of biomass related molecules into biofuels. The disadvantages of conventional biocatalysts such as catalyst deactivation, mass transfer, poisoning, and long reaction time can be outstripped by novel nanobiocatalysts. Nanobiocatalyst increases the catalytic activity; and this higher activity is because of the increased surface to volume ratio and hence it can act as a deoxygenation catalyst too. In recent years, exploiting modern tools for nanoparticles synthesis and characterization yielded high quality optimized and conditioned nanocatalyst systems such as metal oxide nanoparticles, magnetic nanoparticles, and carbon nanotubes to increase the biofuel productivity. Nanomaterial immobilized lipases and cellulases are predictably innovative catalysts having remarkable properties. The present article is critically discussed various nanomaterial immobilized enzyme development and its influence over production of biofuel. Continuous research and development and novel nanobiocatalyst engineering is essential for stabilization of biofuel producing companies.

Biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using copper doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst - Process optimisation and economic analysis
India is the world's third largest consumer of energy. India's energy consumption consists of 44% coal, biomass and waste 24%, petroleum and other liquids 23% and other renewable sources such as wind, solar, nuclear and biofuels. Due to the shortage of diesel and increasing prices, biodiesel gained its importance as an alternate to the petroleum based fuels. This paper deals with the transesterification of waste cooking oil to biodiesel with copper doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst under varying parameters such as oil to methanol ratio (1:2-1:5 mol), catalyst loading (2-8% w/w), reaction time (30-60 minutes) and temperature (40-70°C). Results show that the maximum yield of about 97.7% was obtained at optimum reaction conditions. This result is further validated. The economic analysis of biodiesel production is carried out and the cost of biodiesel per litre works out to be 68 rupees INR ($0.99). Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.. All rights reserved.

Evaluation of potential biodiesel feedstocks: Camelina, turnip rape, oil radish and tyfon
Background: One of the most promising alternative biofuels, competitive with regular petrol, diesel or jet fuel is biodiesel, especially derived from plant oils. Until now, various technological approaches, as well as oil sources, have been proposed for biodiesel production, but an industrially scalable technology with high end-product quality and production efficiency has not been developed and brought to the market yet. Biodiesel is produced in Europe and North America mainly from rapeseed, or canola, sunflower and soybean oil. However, other underutilized plant species could also be considered as potential oil feedstocks for biodiesel. The great perspective holds Brassicaceae family, especially such species as false flax (Camelina sativa) and Ethiopian mustard (Brassica carinata), but many other Brassicaceae crops are still out of sight. Objectives: This research has been conducted aiming to identify and compare the productivity of several Brassicaceae crops (camelina or false flax (C. sativa), turnip rape (B. campestris), oil radish (Raphanus sativus var. oleifera) and tyfon (B. rapa ssp. oleifera f. biennis × (ssp. rapifera × ssp. pekinensis)), that are suitable for biodiesel production under conditions of temperate climate regions (Northern America, Europe); and to obtain biodiesel by transesterification of fatty acids present on these species using bioethanol. Methods and Materials: Seed oil content, yield and fatty acid profiles have been studied and analysed in different genotypes of C. sativa (10), winter (6) and spring (4) B. campestris, R. sativus var. oleifera (8) and tyfon (5). The most productive crops have been identified: false flax variety ‘Evro-12’ (1620 kg of oil per hectare) and ‘Peremoha’ (1657 kg/ha); winter turnip rape variety ‘Oriana’ (1373 kg/ha), oil radish variety ‘Kyianochka’ (1445 kg/ha) and tyfon varieties ‘Fitopal’ (1730 kg/ha) and ‘Obriy’ (1860 kg/ha). According to chromatographic analysis results, oils of winter turnip rape and tyfon contain high levels (38-42,8%) of erucic (22:1) acid, while oils from spring turnip rape, false flax and oil radish possess high amounts of short-chained fatty acids (not longer than C18) – up to 85,37% in camelina breeding line FEORZhYaFD. Fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE) were produced from oil of best genotypes and proved to comply with all main quality requirements for diesel. Results: Moreover, a new solvent-based technology of high-yield (up to 96%) FAEE production, has been firstly proposed for C. sativa oil conversion. Conclusion: Best genotypes that can be used as a plant oil source for biodiesel production have been identified for camelina, turnip rape, oil radish and tyfon species. The data obtained on seed oil content, yield and fatty acid profiles suggested that they are: false flax – breeding form FEORZhYaFD; winter turnip rape-variety ‘Oriana’; oil radish-variety ‘Rayduha’ and tyfon hybrid-variety ‘Fitopal’. Biodiesel samples obtained from these plants fit the Ukrainian standards for diesel fuel and can be used in car engines. The proposed new technological approach to produce fatty acid ethyl esters allows to reduce reaction time and to increase esters yield and quality. Blume et al. This is an open access article distrib.

Catalysis deoxygenation and hydrodeoxygenation of edible and inedible oil to green fuel
Green diesel or known as the hydrocarbons (alkane and alkene) is a renewable and globally friendly biofuel which generally was derived from the triglycerides or fatty acids. The sustainability of the green diesel always concerned the cost of the production, energy supply and demand (net energy balance), the sustainability of more significant crops production or feedstock supply, acceptance of the country and economic stability. Above all, the lack of the petroleum products, the increase in fuel efficiency and affordable by the public are significant reasons for the green diesel to become one of the most important energy supplies for our future The review found important research areas to be reduction in cost of production and maintenance, improvement in fuel quality and improvement in the environmental benefit from using green diesel. With regard to cost reduction, experiments have been conducted on use of low cost catalysts, waste products as feedstocks and H2-free reaction atmosphere. Fuel quality improvement studies have proposed new catalysts, reaction pathways and conditions to improve hydrocarbon selectivity and fuel stability. Future studies must specifically focus on commercial feasibility of the use of waste materials as feedstocks, heterogeneous catalysts, improvement in reaction pathways to production green diesel and similar other concerns. This article covers the catalysis for deoxygenation, the factor influencing the deoxygenation process and the recent progress of deoxygenation. PENERBIT AKADEMIA BARU.

Single-step conversion of sugarcane bagasse to biofuel over Mo-supported graphene oxide nanocatalyst
Along with the great efforts in producing clean and low-cost fuel and chemicals, in this work, novel nanocatalysts are reported for the fast pyrolysis of the bagasse. To this end, different catalyst supports were employed to load Mo oxides or sulfides through incipient wetness impregnation. The prepared nanocatalysts were characterized by X-ray diffraction to determine the formed phases, N2 adsorption/desorption to clarify the surface properties, and SEM to observe the morphology and energy-dispersive X-ray to provide the atomic mapping. A series of nanocatalysts including the Mo sulfide loaded over graphene oxide (MoS2/GrO) or porous graphene (MoS2/graphene), Mo oxide loaded over charcoal, and Co-Mo oxide loaded over MgO were studied in the fast pyrolysis of the bagasse. The results revealed that the use of catalyst decreased the bio-oil yield of the process. Interestingly, it was found the fast pyrolysis of the bagasse is dependent on the used catalysts and the fractions of bio-oil can be determined according the catalysts types. It was found that with accordance to the demanded chemicals, the catalysts can be chosen which is highly valuable in producing chemicals and each catalysts support results in a specific set of products. In general, the acetic acid was the main product without using catalyst, and by using the MoS2/GrO nanocatalyst, the phenols were formed dominantly which are of great importance in different industries. This novel work successfully revealed that the metal-based catalysts can be employed instead of the zeolites which paves the way toward using low-cost metallic catalysts in producing bio-chemicals and bio-oils., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Response surface for biodiesel production from soybean oil by ethylic route
Petroleum has been the most consumed energy source in the world, but it tends to run out due its non-renewable character. Among biofuels, biodiesel has emerged as the main candidate to substitute petroleum diesel. The present study aimed to identify the maximum yield point of biodiesel production by generating a response surface using molar ratio, temperature and agitation time as independent variables, and yield as a dependent variable. From the response surface, it is observed that the increase in temperature and reaction time leads to reduced yield. The configuration that resulted in maximum yield of 93.30% was 12:1 molar ratio, 30 °C temperature and 30-minute reaction time. From the chromatographic analysis it was possible to identify five different fatty acids in the composition of the biodiesels. Total saturated fatty acids (palmitic and stearic acids) ranged from 41.53% to 42.09% and total unsaturated fatty acids including monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids (oleic, linoleic and linolenic acids) ranged from 57.92% to 58.48%. According to the results of the physicochemical analyses, the specific mass at 68°F is in agreement with Brazilian, American and European specifications, ranging from 877.46 kg m-3 to 879.64 kg m-3. The kinematic viscosity at 104 °F ranged from 4.49 mm² s-1 to 4.82 mm² s-1. The acid value obtained did not vary within the limits established by the norms, and values between 0.54 and 2.74 mg KOH g-1 were observed., Eesti Pollumajandusulikool. All rights reserved.

Functional nanomaterials-catalyzed production of biodiesel
Background: Biodiesel, as a green and renewable biofuel, has great potential to replace fossil diesel. The development of efficient and stable heterogeneous catalysts is vital to produce bio-diesel in an efficient and green way. Nanocatalysts provide a high surface-to-volume ratio as well as high active site loading and can improve mass transfer, which is beneficial to enhance their catalytic activity. Objective: The review focuses on the latest advances in the production of biodiesel using nanostruc-tured catalysts. Methods: Biodiesel is mainly produced through esterification and transesterification reaction using acids, bases or lipases as catalysts. We mainly review the synthesis methods and physicochemical properties of various basic, acidic and lipase nanocatalysts. Meanwhile, their catalytic activities in biodiesel production are also discussed. Results: Alkali nanocatalysts are mainly suitable for transformation of oils with low acid values to biodiesel via transesterification reaction. In contrast, acidic nanocatalysts are not sensitive to water as well as free fatty acids and can avoid saponification associated with basic nanocatalysts while pro-mote simultaneous esterification and transesterification reaction. However, acid-catalyzed trans-esterification usually requires harsh reaction conditions. In addition, the lipase-catalyzed process is also suitable for non-edible oils containing high contents of free fatty acids, which possess environmental and economic advantages. Conclusion: Nanocatalysts have many advantages such as good accessibility with nanostructure, high active site loading and reduction of mass transfer resistance. However, most of those materials undergo deactivation after several cycles. Therefore, the development of more efficient, stable, and low-cost nanocatalysts is desirable for producing biodiesel. Bentham Science Publishers.

Catalytic dimerization of bio-based 5-methylfurfuryl alcohol to bis(5-methylfuran-2-yl) methane with a solid acidic nanohybrid
Background: Liquid C8-C15 long-chain alkanes, as the main components of jet fuels or diesel, can be synthetized from abundant and renewable biomass derivatives by extending the car-bon-chain length through cascade C-C coupling over acidic catalysts and hydrodeoxygenation over metal particles. Objective: This research aims to develop a carbon-increasing catalytic process through the dimeriza-tion of 5-methylfurfuryl alcohol to produce the C11 oxygenate bis(5-methylfuran-2-yl) methane. Methods: In this work, 5-methylfurfural, derivable from sugars, could be reduced to the expensive 5-methylfurfuryl alcohol over Cs2 CO3 using an eco-friendly hydride polymethylhydrosiloxane. In the subsequent carbon-increasing process, a solid acidic nanocatalyst 3-chlorpyridine phosphotungstic acid (3-ClPYPW) was developed to be efficient for the conversion of 5-methylfurfuryl alcohol to bis(5-methylfuran-2-yl) methane under mild reaction conditions. Results: A good bis(5-methylfuran-2-yl) methane yield of 51.6% was obtained using dichloro-methane as a solvent at a low temperature of 70°C in 11 h. The solid nanocatalyst was able to be reused for at least four cycles without a remarkable loss of catalytic activity. The kinetic study proved that the reaction is a first-order reaction with apparent activation energy (Ea) of 41.10 kJ mol-1, while the thermodynamic study certified that the reaction is non-spontaneous and endother-mic. Conclusion: A novel catalytic pathway for the synthesis of BMFM (C11 oxygenate) by the one-pot process was successfully developed over solid acidic nanocatalysts 3-ClPYPW. Bentham Science Publishers.

Diethyl ether as an oxygenated additive for fossil diesel/vegetable oil blends: Evaluation of performance and emission quality of triple blends on a diesel engine
The aim of this work is to analyze the effect of using diethyl ether (DEE) as an oxygenated additive of straight vegetable oils (SVOs) in triple blends with fossil diesel, to be used in current compression ignition (C.I.) engines, in order to implement the current process of replacing fossil fuels with others of a renewable nature. The use of DEE is considered taking into account the favorable properties for blending with SVO and fossil diesel, such as its very low kinematic viscosity, high oxygen content, low autoignition temperature, broad flammability limits (it works as a cold start aid for engines), and very low values of cloud and pour point. Therefore, DEE can be used as a solvent of vegetable oils to reduce the viscosity of the blends and to improve cold flow properties. Besides, DEE is considered renewable, since it can be easily obtained from bioethanol, which is produced from biomass through a dehydration process. The vegetable oils evaluated in the mixtures with DEE were castor oil, which is inedible, and sunflower oil, used as a standard reference for waste cooking oil. In order to meet European petrodiesel standard EN 590, a study of the more relevant rheological properties of biofuels obtained from the DEE/vegetable oil double blends has been performed. The incorporation of fossil diesel to these double blends gives rise to diesel/DEE/vegetable oil triple blends, which exhibited suitable rheological properties to be able to operate in conventional diesel engines. These blends have been tested in a conventional diesel engine, operating as an electricity generator. The efficiency, consumption and smoke emissions in the engine have been measured. The results reveal that a substitution of fossil diesel up to 40% by volume can be achieved, independently of the SVO employed. Moreover, a significant reduction in the emission levels of pollutants and better cold flow properties has been also obtained with all blends tested. by the authors.

Nanorods of cerium oxide as an improved electrocatalyst for enhanced oxygen reduction in single-chambered microbial biofuel cells
This paper reports the synthesis and utilization of cerium oxide (CeO2) nanorods as a cathode catalyst and a potential, low-cost replacement of platinum for microbial biofuel cells (MBFCs). The nanorod electrocatalyst had exhibited significant improvements over Pt nanoparticles in terms of forward and backward onset potentials and peak current densities, electronic conductivity, charge transfer resistance, stability in 0.1 M phosphate buffer solution, and cost. It had also demonstrated a more stable forward peak current density at the 100th steady cycle, as well as, higher current density values up to 7,200 s. In addition, the synthesized CeO2 nanorods also produced ∼103 times higher exchange current density over the synthesized Pt nanoparticles. Furthermore, in a single-chamber MBFC, the CeO2 nanorods exhibited higher open circuit voltage (+0.80 V after 14 days), and output current (3613 mAm-2 at +0.3 V) and power (1084 mWm-2) densities in comparison to Pt nanoparticles. The Author(s). Published by IOP Publishing Ltd.

Highly Selective Reduction of Bio-Based Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol Catalyzed by Supported KF with Polymethylhydrosiloxane (PMHS)
Hydrogenation of bio-based furfural (FUR) to furfuryl alcohol (FFA) is tremendously expanding the application of biomass in many industries such as resins, biofuels, and pharmaceuticals. However, mass manufacture of FFA from FUR is restrained by strict requirements of reaction conditions and expensive catalysts. In this work, an economical and benign catalytic system, containing an easily prepared and reusable catalyst 5 wt.% KF/ZrO2 and a low-cost hydrogen source polymethylhydrosiloxane (PMHS), was developed to be efficient for the hydrogenation of FUR to high-value FFA under mild conditions. The catalyst reactivity was found to be remarkably influenced by the support acid-base properties and KF loading doge. In the presence of 5 wt.% KF/ZrO2, a high FFA yield of 97% and FUR conversion of 99% could be obtained at 25°C in just 0.5 h, which was superior to those attained with other tested catalysts. The KF/ZrO2 catalyst could be recycled at least five times, with the FFA yield slightly decreasing from 97% to 71%. The spare decrease in FFA yield is possibly attributed to the catalyst pore blocking, as clarified by SEM, BET, XPS, and ICP-MS measurements of the fresh and reused catalysts. Zhaozhuo Yu et al.

Characterization of biofuel production from hydrothermal treatment of hyperaccumulator waste (Pteris vittata L.) in sub- And supercritical water
In this study, hyperaccumulator waste, i.e., Pteris vittata L. was converted into bio-oil, biogas and biochar via sub- and supercritical hydrothermal liquefaction processes. These products were characterized in terms of EI/MS, FTIR, TGA and GC to understand their chemical composition, thermal decomposition, structural properties and high biofuel reactivity. Characterization results revealed that the dominant chemical components in the heavy bio-oil were esters (40.22%), phenols (20.02%), alcohols (10.16%), organic acids (9.07%), nitrogenous compounds (8.83%) and ketones/aldehydes (6.42%), while the light oil was rich with a higher fraction of phenols (54.13%) and nitrogenous compounds (27.04%). Particularly, bio-oils obtained from supercritical conditions contained increased phenolic compounds and reduced oxygenated chemicals such as alcohols, aliphatic acid, ketones and aldehydes, suggesting the improved quality of bio-oil due to the reduction in oxygen contents. Meanwhile, H2-rich syngas production with the H2 yield of 38.87% was obtained at 535 °C for 20 min, and higher reaction temperature presented a positive influence on H2 production during Pteris vittata L. liquefaction. Moreover, the remaining biochar product was analyzed to determine whether it could be used as a direct solid fuel or auxiliary fuel. This study provided full exploitation of this feedstock waste in energy and valuable chemical complexes. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Efficient manganese decorated cobalt based catalysts for hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) biofuel
2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) is a promising compound in the production of biofuel with high-quality properties. In this study, it is aimed to develop new efficient catalysts to synthesize DMF from 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). Co, Mn/Co, and Ru/Co catalysts were prepared using the NaBH4 reduction method. The catalysts were subjected to activity tests for the hydrogenation of HMF to DMF by changing the reaction parameters, such as temperature and time. Mn/Co catalysts prepared from metal precursors at various molar ratios of Mn/Co were found to be effective in hydrogenation reactions of HMF to DMF. A 91.8% DMF yield was achieved in the presence of a Mn/Co (50/50) catalyst without noble metal at 180°C for 4 hours. The Brunauer-Emmet-Teller (BET) method, x-ray diffraction (XRD), x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and induction coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) techniques were used to characterize the efficient Mn/Co catalyst. Canadian Society for Chemical Engineering

Effect of low-temperature catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction of Spirulina platensis
In this work, the cerium oxide (CeO2) nanocatalyst was employed as a catalyst to enhance the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of microalgae to bio-oil conversion. The HTL optimized parameters were obtained from response surface methodology (RSM). The Spirulina Platensis is blue-green algae were used to convert into bio-oil. The major processing method for bio-oil conversion was designed based on three key parameters, such as temperature, residence time and catalyst concentration. A remarkable enhancement of bio-oil production was observed for 0.20 g of CeO2 catalyzed HTL at 250 °C for 30 min, and around 26% of conversion was achieved which is higher than catalyst-free HTL reaction (16%). The synthetic CeO2 nanostructure was characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM), brunauer-emmett-teller surface area (BET), X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA). The chemical composition of bio-oil was analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and the functional group analysis was done using fourier transform-infra red spectroscopy (FT-IR). The obtained results clearly reveal that the major chemical constituents such as hydrocarbons (7.55%), amino acids (36.69%) and nitrogen compounds (21.58%) for the bio-oil increased during CeO2 catalyzed HTL reaction. This investigation depicts that, the CeO2 nanoparticle could be employed as a potential candidate to accelerate the bio-oil conversion through HTL at low temperature from Spirulina platensis. 

Effect of ultrasonic irradiation on the properties and performance of biodiesel produced from date seed oil used in the diesel engine
In the present study, the effect of ultrasound irradiation on the transesterification parameters, biodiesel properties, and its combustion profiles in the diesel engine was investigated. Moreover, date seed oil (DSO) was firstly utilized in the ultrasound-assisted transesterification reaction. DSO was extracted from Zahidi type date (Phoenix dactylifera) and was esterified to reduce its Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content. Biodiesel yield was optimized in both heating methods, so that the yield of 96.4% (containing 93.5% ester) at 60 °C, with 6 M ratio of methanol/oil, 1 wt% of catalyst (NaOH) and at 90 min of reaction time was reported. The ultrasound irradiation did not influence the reaction conditions except reaction time, reduced to 5 min (96.9% yield and 91.9% ester). The ultrasonic irradiation also influenced on the physicochemical properties of DSO biodiesel and improved its combustion in the diesel engine. The analysis results related to the engine and gas emission confirmed that the ultrasound-assisted produced biodiesel has lower density and viscosity, and higher oxygen content facilitating injection of fuel in the engine chamber and its combustion, respectively. Although, B40 (biodiesel blend consisting of 40% biodiesel and 60% net diesel fuel) as a blend of both fuels presented higher CO2 and lower CO and HC in the emissions, the DSO biodiesel produced by ultrasound irradiation presented better specifications (caused about 2-fold improvement in emissions than that of conventional method). The findings of the study confirmed the positive effect of the ultrasound irradiation on the properties of the produced biodiesel along with its combustion properties in the diesel engine, consequently reducing air pollution problems.

Ternary transition metal chalcogenides decorated on rGO as an efficient nanocatalyst towards urea electro-oxidation reaction for biofuel cell application
A ternary transition metal chalcogenide, containing MoS2, NiS, and Co3S4 (MCNS), and MCNS/reduced graphene oxide (MCNS/rGO) composite were prepared as anode catalysts by a simple hydrothermal process for Urea electro-oxidation. It's expected that rGO with high specific surface area provides superior catalytic performance for MCNS/rGO than MCNS. Also, the synergic effect of Mo, Ni, and Co in the composite accelerates the urea oxidation and enhances the performance of the catalyst. The composites were characterized by field emission electron microscopy, transition electron microscopy, and X-ray diffraction spectroscopy. Electrochemical properties of composites were evaluated by cyclic voltammetry. The MCNS/rGO demonstrated superior electrocatalytic performance than the MCNS catalyst. The incorporating of rGO into MCNS creates a high electrochemical surface area for urea electro-oxidation that resulted in a higher current density (18 mA cm−2) than MCNS (3.7 mA cm−2) at the presence of 0.6 M urea and the scan rate of 20 mV s−1. The maximum current density obtained 43 mA cm−2 for MCNS/rGO at the scan rate of 70 mV s−1 in room temperature. Also, single cells based on MCNS and MCNS/rGO supplied a maximum power density of 7.7 mW cm−2 and 21.0 mW cm−2 at room temperature, respectively. Hence, MCNS/rGO can be a favorable electrocatalyst for application in the direct urea fuel cell. Elsevier B.V.

Biodiesel production optimization from waste cooking oil using green chemistry metrics
Biodiesel is a promising alternative to fossil energy, especially when non edible feedstocks are used in the production process. In the present work, biodiesel was produced from university campus restaurants waste frying soybean oil by means of transesterification reaction. The objective of this study was to reduce the energy and reactants consumption and waste generation to achieve a truly green process. For this purpose, a multiobjective optimization using central composite design (CCD) was performed considering three responses: the reaction conversion, the energy consumption and the green chemistry balance. The last two parameters i.e. the energy consumption and the green chemistry balance were considered as responses for the first time, hence an interesting originality. Temperature, KOH catalyst amount and oil to methanol molar ratio were the CCD independent variables. Five green metrics were used to account for the greenness of the reaction, namely: carbon efficiency, atom economy, reaction mass efficiency, stoichiometric factor and environmental factor. The obtained quadratic models for the prediction of the optimum responses fitted reasonably well the experimental data. The results showed a maximum oil conversion of 100%, minimum energy consumption of 2.69 kJ and maximum green chemistry balance of 77.36% at KOH catalyst concentration of 2 wt%, methanol to oil molar ratio of about 4.73 and a minimum temperature of 45 °C. The physicochemical properties of the produced biodiesel agreed well with the international standards ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials). 

Effect of TEMPO and characterization of bio-oil from cellulose liquefaction in supercritical ethanol
Cellulose liquefaction in supercritical ethanol with 2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidinooxy (TEMPO) was carried out in a stainless autoclave. The influence of process parameters on bio-oil (BO) and platform chemicals, mainly including the dosage of TEMPO, reaction temperature and reaction time, were investigated. Characterization of liquefaction products was explored by fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis (GC-MS). The maximum yield of BO (57.98%) was obtained from cellulose liquefaction at 320 °C, 4 g TEMPO and moderate time of 60 min. It showed that the conversion rate and yield of BO was significantly improved by 46.14% and 31.87% due to temperature and TEMPO respectively. The relative contents of dominant platform chemicals in bio-oil were as follows approximately: ketones > esters > alkanes > alcohols > acids. The total yields of ketones enhanced markedly (from 20.00 to 41.83%) with the increasing of TEMPO. The results showed that TEMPO catalyst under appropriate reaction conditions improved the selectivity of platform chemicals with carbonyl, which had an obvious contribution on the converting of ketones. 

Immobilized polymeric sulfonated ionic liquid on core-shell structured Fe3O4/SiO2 composites: A magnetically recyclable catalyst for simultaneous transesterification and esterifications of low-cost oils to biodiesel
In accordance with the need of green and sustainable development, a magnetically recyclable solid catalyst was developed for the transformation of low-cost oils to biodiesel via simultaneous transesterification and esterifications in an efficient and environmentally benign manner. For this aim, the magnetic Fe3O4/SiO2 composites composed of iron oxides as the core and silica as the shell, were prepared, and then polymeric acidic ionic liquid (IL) was immobilized on the magnetic support through radical grafting copolymerization of Brønsted acidic IL, 1-vinyl-3-(3-sulfopropyl)imidazolium hydrogen sulfate, onto the magnetic support. The characterization results showed that the perfect core-shell structured Fe3O4/SiO2 support with good magnetic responsiveness was formed, and the polymeric acidic IL was tethered on the magnetic support. The combination of polymeric acidic IL with magnetic porous nanoparticles could enhance the catalytic activity and favored the separation performance of the catalyst. The solid catalyst exhibited high activities for both transesterification of soybean oil and esterification of free fatty acids generally presented in low-cost oils. Moreover, the catalyst could be simply recovered magnetically and efficiently reutilized for several times without significant loss in its activity, thus allowing its being potentially applicable for green and economic production of biodiesel especially from the low-cost oil feedstocks. 

Biodiesel production from Momordica Charantia (L.): Extraction and engine characteristics
The present research work comprises of the study of Momordica charantia (L.) seeds as an alternative for biodiesel production. A new source of heterogeneous catalyst: duck egg shell derived calcium oxide (CaO), as catalyst is used in the transesterification reaction. The catalyst has been synthesized and analyzed through X-ray diffraction (XRD), Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier transforms infrared spectrometer (FTIR) and the results were compared with works of other researchers. The MCME thus obtained is characterized through FTIR and Gas chromatograph-Mass spectrometer (GC-MS) for determining the fatty acid methyl ester composition and content. The yield of methyl ester using duck egg shell derived CaO was found to be 96.8%. The engine test at variable engine speed (1200, 1500 and 1800 rpm) and loading (low, medium and full) showed that use of B20 MCME has significant reduction in NOX emissions (51.68%, 55.88% &amp; 55.68% in 1200, 1400 and 1800 rpm) while other emission components- CO, CO2, PM and SO2 were close to that of diesel. Performance and combustion characteristics were observed to be lower than that of diesel. 

Heterogeneously Chemo/Enzyme-Functionalized Porous Polymeric Catalysts of High-Performance for Efficient Biodiesel Production
Efficient transformation of renewable biomass into chemicals and biofuels, including liquid biomass-derived nonedible oils to biodiesel, is of great importance. Developing heterogeneously functional materials is being deemed as a subject of particular interest to scientists in selective catalytic chemistry especially for biomass valorization. In this regard, porous polymers, featuring high surface areas, prominent stabilities, and chemically adjustable moieties, have attracted extensive concerns. In this Review, recent developments on the application of heterogeneously functionalized porous polymeric catalysts of high performance, including acid/base chemosynthetic organic polymers/natural biodegradable biopolymers like chitosan, organic-inorganic hybrid polymeric materials such as functional porous coordination polymers, and porous polymers immobilized with enzymes for effective upgrading of oil feedstocks into biodiesel are summarized. Catalytic protocols using functional polymeric catalysts provide significant benefits for realizing biorefinery procedures because of the following reasons: (i) no polluting reagents, (ii) high activities and selectivities, and (iii) simple and convenient catalyst recycling. Attention has been drawn, in particular, to understanding the role of acidity/basicity, hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity, swelling property, and porosity of polymer materials in biodiesel production through transesterification and esterification reactions. In addition, plausible reaction mechanisms are also depicted accordingly, while highlighting the main remaining challenges and future prospects. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Ecological effect of corn oil biofuel with SiO2 nano-additives
Biodiesel derived from corn oil promise to be an alternative for the conventional diesel fuel due to their similarity in properties. In this present work, silicon dioxide (SiO2) nanoparticles are used as an additive to the corn oil methyl ester (COME) in the form of an emulsion. SiO2 nanoparticles are dispersed in the emulsions with different dosage levels of 50, 75 and 100 ppm. A single cylinder, four-stroke, direct injection CI engine is made to run on B20, and B20 dozed with SiO2 nanoparticles for different concentrations to study the effect of metal oxide nanoparticles on emission characteristics of the fuel. Experimental results show that addition of nanoparticles has a positive effect on emission characteristics as nanoparticles act as an oxidation catalyst., Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Performance analysis of pongamia (Karanj oil) as fuel in diesel engine
The experimental outcomes on a diesel engine with numerous emission performances of fuels primarily based on pongamia pinnata oil as compared with diesel gasoline. Fuels utilized in experimental research have been combinations of pongamia pinnata methyl ester and diesel in exclusive proportions: 80% diesel-20% PPME,60%diesel-40% PPME, 40% diesel-60% PPME, 20% diesel gas-80% PPME, 100% PPME and 100% diesel as (reference). The project had focused on the use of fuels derived from pongamia pinnata oil on the prevailing kirloskar AV1 engines. Fuel related properties were reviewed and as compared with the ones of traditional diesel fuel. The effect of use of biofuel on engine emissions from biodiesel and diesel fuels were as compared, paying unique interest to the maximum enormous emissions which include Hydro carbons, carbon monoxide, nitric oxides and particulates be counted., Hampstead Psychological Associates. All rights reserved.

Hollow multi-shelled Co3O4 dodecahedra for nonenzymatic glucose biosensor [基于多壳层Co3O4中空正十二面体的高效葡萄糖传感器]
Electrochemical oxidation of glucose has been attracting more and more attention because of its importance in the development of advanced glucose biosensing or biofuel cell for various medical applications, where electrocatalysts with high activities are viewed as one of the most critical factors to determine the performance in these electrochemical devices. There are usually three strategies to enhance the activity of an electrocatalyst system by increasing the number of active sites on the specific electrocatalyst, the intrinsic activity of each active sites and the ability to transfer charges. The utilization of various nanocatalysts with high specific surface areas is the most common way to increase the number of active sites, whereas the intrinsic activity of each active sites is mainly related to the component and crystal structure of catalysts as well as the type of exposed facets, which are partially responsible to the charge conductivity too. In principle, these three strategies are independent and not mutually exclusive, which could be ideally placed together for being comprehensively considered. However, it is still a great challenge to realizingly describe the relation of these three strategies and simultaneously realize the optimization of these three strategies in an electrocatalyst system owing to the limitation of mass and charge transport, which usually leads to a lower practical performance than the theoretical value from increasing active surfaces. Considerable efforts have been devoted to discovering and developing electrocatalysts with different compositions from noble metals, carbon, to transition metals and their hydroxides or oxides and different mesostructures from nanoparticles, nanowires, nanosheets to their three-dimensional superstructures. Among of them, hollow Co3O4 nanomaterials are well-known to be a kind of promising electrocatalyst due to their multiple valence states and unique mesostructures. Especially, hollow multi-shelled structure (HoMs) of Co3O4 nanomaterials possess some advantages over their counterparts with only one shell, such as more active surfaces, better stability, and usually exhibit higher performance. Herein, we present a nonenzymatic glucose biosensor based on hollow multi-shelled Co3O4 dodecahedra, which obtained from the thermal transformation of Co-based metal-organic framework (ZIF-67). Morphology, crystal structure and electrochemical property of hollow multi-shelled Co3O4 dodecahedra were characterized by using X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscope, N2 physisorption, cyclic voltammetry, amperometry, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. Due to the topological arrangement of Co atoms in ZIF-67, the oriented assembly of Co3O4 nanoparticles in hollow dodecahedra leads to a porous shell with more exposure of (111) facets, which allows for the improved molecule-diffusion and charge-transfer properties as well as enhanced catalytical activities for the electro-oxidation of glucose. As a result, multi-shelled hollow Co3O4 hollow dodecahedra gives a high sensitivity of 4075.2 µA mmol/(L cm2) toward glucose at a low concentration level of 0.01-0.338 mmol/L, which is superior over ordered mesoporous Co3O4 with large and small mesopores of 12 and 4.5 nm (3561.1 and 2074.3 µA mmol/(L cm2), respectively). This work demonstrated the potential of hollow multi-shelled Co3O4 dodecahedra as a novel electrocatalyst for advanced nonenzymatic glucose biosensor, which will bring more opportunities for designing and developing other electrocatalysts with higher activities., Science Press. All right reserved.

Application of bioelectrochemical systems for carbon dioxide sequestration and concomitant valuable recovery: A review
The rise in global atmospheric temperature due to increase in the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration needs to be tackled immediately before it reaches the point of no return. The application of innovative technologies based on the concepts of bioelectrochemical systems (BESs) can contribute in this direction by simultaneously sequestrating CO2 and producing value-added products in the process. Wastewater treatment with simultaneous bioenergy and biofuel recovery is also one of the added advantage of employing BESs for CO2 fixation. This review focuses on the potential of employing BES-based technologies like microbial carbon capture, plant-microbial fuel cell and microbial electrosynthesis cell for the concomitant production of valuables and CO2 sequestration. Also, various parameters affecting performance of BES that need to be optimized for the proper field-scale demonstration of these technologies are discussed.

A synergic approach for nutrient recovery and biodiesel production by the cultivation of microalga species in the fertilizer plant wastewater
The combination of wastewater treatment and biodiesel production using algal cultivation was studied in the present work. The two main goals of the work were achieved by the cultivation of freshwater microalgae such as Chlamydomonas sp., Scenedesmus ecornis, and Scenedesmus communis in two different dilutions of fertilizer plant wastewater (FWWD1 and FWWD2) collected from Yara Suomi Oy, Finland. The growth pattern of different algal species in FWWD1 and FWWD2 was observed. The effect of pH on biomass concentration, lipid content, biomass productivity, and lipid productivity by all three algal species in FWWD1 and FWWD2 were monitored. The maximum biomass concentration and productivity were observed in FWWD1 at pH7.5 for Chlamydomonas sp. and at pH 8.5 for S. ecornis and S. communis. The maximum lipid content was detected in Chlamydomonas sp at pH5.5, followed by S. ecornis and then S. communis at pH 7.5 in FWWD2 obtained after co-solvent extraction method. The most significant removal percentage of COD by all algal species were observed in FWWD1, whereas the highest removal percentage of TN and TP were detected in FWWD2, respectively. The fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) characterization of each algal species in FWWD1 and FWWD2 at their optimum pH was investigated to determine the quality of obtained biodiesel., The Author(s).

Sodium titanate nanotubes for efficient transesterification of oils into biodiesel
In this work, sodium titanate nanotubes were prepared by a hydrothermal method for 23 h at 160 °C and characterized by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) methods, and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy. The obtained nanotubes were used as catalysts in the transesterification of pure and cooked oils under different experimental conditions (molar ratio, temperature, catalyst weight, and time). The catalyst showed high efficiency depending on the chosen conditions. The biodiesel yield was found to be 95.9% at 80 °C for 2 h. The catalyst also showed high activity for cooked oil conversion, with yields of 96.0, 96.0, and 93.58% for the first, second, and third uses of oil, respectively. The methanol was recycled and used in another transesterification experiment, and the biodiesel yield reached 91%. Density functional theory, Monte Carlo simulation, and molecular dynamics simulation were employed to clearly understand the transesterification mechanism. The transesterification reaction is represented by a pseudo-first-order kinetics model. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae using Fe3O4 nanostructures as efficient catalyst for the production of bio-oil: Optimization of reaction parameters by response surface methodology
The aim of the present work was focused on optimizing the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of Spirulina platensis catalyzed by Fe3O4 nanostructures to enhance the bio-oil yield and quality of bio-oil using response surface methodology (RSM). The structural morphology and crystalline nature of the synthesized catalyst was determined using a scanning electron microscope (SEM), high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) and X-ray powder diffraction (XRD). Three of the vital reaction parameters such as temperature, holding time and catalyst dosage were optimized through central composite design. A maximum bio-oil yield of 32.33% was observed for the high temperature at 320 °C, 0.75 g of catalyst dosage and 37 min of resident time. The maximum conversion was found at a lower temperature of 272 °C, the bio-oil yield of 27.66% was obtained with 0.45 g of catalyst dosage and 24 min of holding time which is an energy efficient optimum condition. The maximum bio-oil yield was influenced at a lower temperature due to the high catalytic activity. While compared to higher temperatures were not much influence was observed. It clearly states that the catalyst dosage playing a critical role in the lower temperature HTL reaction. GC-MS and FT-IR analysis of the produced bio-oil exhibits significant characteristics for biofuel applications. The Fe3O4 catalyst was recyclable for up to eight repeated cycles and constant bio-oil yield for the last four cycles. It shows the excellent reproduction ability towards HTL of Spirulina sp. 

Tailoring the surface area and the acid–base properties of ZrO2 for biodiesel production from Nannochloropsis sp.
Bifunctional heterogeneous catalysts have a great potential to overcome the shortcomings of homogeneous and enzymatic catalysts and simplify the biodiesel production processes using low-grade, high-free-fatty-acid feedstock. In this study, we developed ZrO2-based bifunctional heterogeneous catalysts for simultaneous esterification and transesterification of microalgae to biodiesel. To avoid the disadvantage of the low surface area of ZrO2, the catalysts were prepared via a surfactant-assisted sol-gel method, followed by hydrothermal treatments. The response surface methodology central composite design was employed to investigate various factors, like the surfactant/Zr molar ratio, pH, aging time, and temperature on the ZrO2 surface area. The data were statistically analyzed to predict the optimal combination of factors, and further experiments were conducted for verification. Bi2O3 was supported on ZrO2 via the incipient wetness impregnation method. The catalysts were characterized by a variety of techniques, which disclosed that the surfactant-assisted ZrO2 nanoparticles possess higher surface area, better acid–base properties, and well-formed pore structures than bare ZrO2. The highest yield of fatty acid methyl esters (73.21%) was achieved using Bi2O3/ZrO2(CTAB), and the catalytic activity of the developed catalysts was linearly correlated with the total densities of the acidic and basic sites. The mechanism of the simultaneous reactions was also discussed., The Author(s).

Performance and stability assessment of Mg-Al-Fe nanocatalyst in the transesterification of sunflower oil: Effect of Al/Fe molar ratio
Heterogeneously biodiesel production from vegetable oils is recently concerned for reduction the environmental problems of its homogeneous production process. Therefore, synthesis an active and stable catalyst via simple, cost-effective and industrialization method must be proposed. For this purpose, a series of MgO impregnated on MgAlFe mixed metal catalysts with different Al/Fe molar ratio was prepared via solution combustion method for production of biodiesel from sunflower oil. The results of characterization presented that spinel type of MgFe2O4 was successfully synthesized by combustion method. Moreover, present of Al cation into mixture of precursors caused to the combustion reaction transfer from smoldering to flam reaction that is related to lower heat formation of MgAl2O4. This phenomenon prevents the insufficient growth of crystal and particles. Moreover, due to releasing huge amount of gases during combustion reaction, high reaction temperature and well bonding of active phases with the samples containing Al cations, they showed highly porous structure, high surface area, appropriate pore shape and high thermal stability. These advantages clearly increased their activity in the transesterification reaction. According the results, the MgO/MgAl0.4Fe1.6O4 nanocatalyst was selected as optimum sample that converted 93.2% of sunflower oil to biodiesel at the conditions of 110 °C, 12 M ratio of methanol/oil, 3 wt.% of catalyst and 3 h of reaction time. The sample also exhibited high stability for several uses such that preserved its activity at least for five times (conversion &gt; 85%). Elsevier B.V.

Conversion of a low value industrial waste into biodiesel using a catalyst derived from brewery waste: An activation and deactivation kinetic study
In this study, biodiesel was produced by using a heterogeneous acid catalyst made from brewer's spent yeast (BSY). BSY was initially activated by phosphoric acid followed by carbonization in inert atmosphere and sulfonation process to prepare the catalyst. It is completely characterized using sophisticated instruments to determine its physical and chemical properties. Subsequently, the effectiveness of the catalyst was analyzed by subjecting it to sonochemical esterification of an industrial low value waste product, palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD). The reactions were performed in the presence of ultrasound at a constant frequency of 25 kHz. An optimum methyl ester conversion of 87.8% was achieved at 8 wt% of catalyst, 21:1 methanol to PFAD molar ratio, 65 °C and 180 min of reaction time. The catalyst displayed a high catalytic stability up to four cycles due to firm [sbnd]SO3H functional group attached onto the surface. Furthermore, a novel sonochemical kinetic model was proposed for surface esterification reaction on the catalyst. The reaction rate was found and it followed a pseudo-first-order reaction mechanism. Furthermore, a deactivation model was also proposed to account for the loss of activity upon catalyst reuse during sonochemical reaction. 

Catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction of rice straw for production of monomers phenol over metal supported mesoporous catalyst
The catalytic (SBA-15, Ni/SBA-15, Al/SBA-15 and Ni-Al/SBA-15) hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of rice straw biomass was examined at different temperature with different amount of catalyst in the presence of different solvents. In comparison with water solvent liquefaction, the bio-oil yield significantly increased under alcoholic solvent (ethanol and methanol). The highest bio-oil yield was observed for water (44.3 wt%) with Ni-Al/SBA-15, while for ethanol (56.2 wt%), and for methanol (48.1 wt%) with, Ni/SBA-15 catalyst. The loading of Ni and Al on SBA-15, the acid strength of the catalyst enhanced. Bio-oils yield were analyzed with the help of GC–MS, FT-IR, NMR, GPC and CHNS. From the GC–MS analysis, the main monomeric phenolic compounds were produced, phenol, 4-ethyl-phenol, 2-methoxy-phenol, 2-methoxy-4-ethyl-phenol and Vanillin. It was observed by CHNS and GPC analysis of the bio-oil, compared to the non-catalytic liquefaction reaction, the catalytic liquefaction reaction promotes the hydrogenation/hydrodeoxygenation and produced lower molecular weight bio-oils.

Biodiesel Production from Waste Edible Oil with Heterogeneous Catalysts (Nanoclay-Based Nanocatalysts)
The various benefits of biofuels versus fossil fuels due to recent global challenges and issues are the best approach toward low-cost economic production of renewable energy. This study is trying to obtain economic catalysts with easy fabrication technology. The synthesized catalysts were obtained using calcium oxide/nanoclay catalysts by an initial ion-exchange reaction of calcium oxide and nanoclays (montmorillonite). These catalysts have been synthesized for the first time by being stirred for 5 h at a temperature of 80 °C, and the colloidal supernatant is obtained and kept in an ultrasonic bath for 20 min. The solution was filtered, washed several times, the residual mixture on filter paper was dried in the oven at 50 °C for few hours, and the powder was calcined for 8 h in a furnace at 600 °C. After identification and characterization, using XRD, BET, and SEM, the results approved the formation of a new nanostructure in synthesized catalysts, which were suitable to be used in biodiesel production from waste oils with high free fatty acids content. The results of this study indicate that the catalysts production process is not complicated, and methyl ester production rates in all biodiesel samples were more than 97% (97.1–98.8%)., King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals.

Detection of Lignin Motifs with RuO2-DNA as an Active Catalyst via Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering Studies
Biomass-derived lignin derivatives are significant biodegradable plant materials which produce a variety of value-added products by oxidation/oxidative cleavage methods. These value-added products constitute important materials for the sustainable production of biofuels. The ultralevel quantitative detection of feedstock carbonyls on metal surfaces is possible with surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) technique. Considering environmental friendly protocols for activation of molecular oxygen in both valorization methods of biomass, the corresponding SERS detection protocols are rare. Here, for the very first time, RuO2-DNA nanochains aggregate as an efficient catalyst for oxidation/oxidative cleavage of biomass-derived lignin mimics and their subsequent in-situ SERS detection. Notably, both reactions are carried out in aqueous medium. For the controlled oxidation study, veratryl alcohol and cinnamyl alcohol were used as lignin mimics, and the respective carbonyls were detected by the SERS method by activating molecular oxygen. Also, by changing the oxidant from molecular oxygen to peroxide, the respective acids were seen to be formed for veratryl alcohol. We extend this protocol to oxidative cleavage of lignin-derived olefins, and diols, such as cinnamyl alcohol and 1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol, and corresponding acids were formed and detected by SERS technique. This oxidation protocol could also be scaled-up for large-scale synthesis and recyclability experiments to prove the robustness of the catalyst under green conditions. American Chemical Society.

Harvesting of blooming microalgae using green synthetized magnetic maghemite (Γ-Fe2O3) nanoparticles for biofuel production
This study aims to harvest the hazardous algae from water using biologically synthetized magnetic nanomaterials with cheap, simple and environmentally friendly process to valorise it into biodiesel. The characteristics of obtained nanoparticles showed that it has 50 nm-sized hexagonal or round-shaped nanoparticles indicating its high adsorption capability due to its large surface area (78.4 m2 g−1) and suitable porous volume (0.3 cm3 g−1), and thus, proved to be effective to collect microalgae from water. The optimum conditions for harvesting efficiency (HE) were determined under a response surface methodology (RSM) using CCD approach (five-level, four-factor Central Composite Design) including various parameters; particle dosage, time, stirring speed and temperature while considering the HE (%) as the response. The optimized conditions for HE were found to be 56 mg L−1 particle dosage, 48 s, 310 rpm and 22.5 °C. The optimized algae HE was 82.4%. The lipid content of the harvested biomass was 5.6%. The produced oil was found to have high saturation level in which butyric (C4:0) (43.4%), heneicosanoic (C21:0) (22.4%), heptadecanoic (C17:0) (16.7%) and undecanoic (C11:0) (12.8%) acids were found as the dominant fatty acids. Fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) composition of obtained biodiesel was suitable comprising of 40.46% saturated fatty acids, 42.77% monounsaturated fatty acids and 16.77% polyunsaturated fatty acids. The physicochemical properties of the produced biodiesel were characterized. All properties, except acid value, satisfy international ASTM D6751 criteria and can be used commercially with acid neutralization. 

Hydrothermal carbonization of cellulose and xylan into hydrochars and application on glucose isomerization
Hydrochar microsphere as clean and facile carbon materials have great potentials to be used in biomass valorization for producing value-added chemicals. In this study, the hydrochars obtained from cellulose and xylan were prepared. The effect of hydrothermal conditions on hydrochars’ chemical composition, thermal stability and the porosity obtained from cellulose and xylan were evaluated. In order to explore the application of the hydrochar in biofuel production, the cellulose derived hydrochar supported Al catalyst (Al-Cel-HTC) was prepared by one-step hydrothermal process for catalysis glucose isomerization. We found distinct physicochemical properties between cellulose and xylan derived hydrochar. The specific surface area (SBET) of cellulose derived hydrochar (118 m2/g) is significantly higher than that of xylan derived hydrochar (28 m2/g). The hydrochars are composed of carbonaceous microspheres as evidenced by SEM. The catalytic performance of Al-Cel-HTC was investigated. Results shown that 77.8 mol/% selectivity of glucose to fructose can be obtained in aqueous by the catalyst. The SEM-EDS images of the catalyst shown the strong crystal-hydrochar microsphere interaction benifit in diminishing the agglomeration of hydrochar microsphere. The BET specific surface area and crystal structure (AlO(OH) and Al2O3) of hydrochar supported aluminum catalyst have positive correlation with the catalytic selectivity.

Advances in nano-catalysts based biodiesel production from non-food feedstocks
This paper aims to examine the influence of various catalysts on biodiesel production, especially from non-food feedstocks with an ambition to optimize the catalytic biodiesel production. Homogenous acid catalysts are mainly used in biodiesel production, but they cannot be recovered and demand costly fuel purification as being corrosive. Similarly, enzyme catalysts are expensive in industrial-scale production of biodiesel. However, heterogeneous catalysts simplify the easy separation of product and by-products from the catalyst along with catalyst reusability and reduction of waste. Solid acid and base catalysts offer more advantages due to their non-toxicity, high surface area, reusability, higher stability, and the simplicity of purification. Solid base catalysts yield better activity than solid acid catalysts, however, they cannot esterify large amounts of free fatty acids (FFAs) in non-food feedstocks. The solid acid catalysts have the added advantages of being more tolerant to high amounts of FFAs and being able to simultaneously esterify FFAs and transesterify triglycerides in cheap feedstocks like waste cooking oil. Recently, an array of inorganic, organic and polymeric solid acid and nanomaterial-based catalysts have been developed using cheap feedstocks. However, the issues of low reactivity, small pore sizes, low stabilities, long reaction times, and high reaction temperatures still need to be solved. The developments of producing efficient, cheap, durable, and stable solid acid and nanomaterial-based catalysts have been critically reviewed in this study. Furthermore, the challenges and future perspectives of production of biodiesel and its industry growth have also been discussed.

A facile noncatalytic methyl ester production from waste chicken tallow using single step subcritical methanol: Optimization study
In this modern era, an increase in urbanization causes the escalating trend of fuel demand as well as environmental pollution problems. Various biofuels research with the respect of climate change and emission reduction recently intensifies, particularly in biodiesel. In Indonesia, diesel oil currently in use contains 20% of biodiesel. Utilizing waste-based resources such as rendered chicken tallow as the feedstock could be the solution to both energy and environmental challenges. However, chicken tallow contains a significant amount of free fatty acid (FFA) which will obstruct the production yield of biodiesel. In this study, catalyst-free subcritical methanol has been employed to convert waste chicken tallow (WCT) with high FFA into biodiesel. Design of experiment was conducted to study the effect of temperature, time, and the molar ratio of methanol to fats on the purity and recovery of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs). Based on the optimization study performed by response surface methodology (RSM), all three independent variables gave a significant effect on the recovery of FAME. From the experimental results, the maximum FAME yield obtained was 98.43 ± 0.22% with the optimum condition as follows: 167°C, 36.8 minutes, and 42.7:1 (methanol/WCT, mol/mol), while the predicted FAME yield obtained using RSM was 97.76%. The methyl ester composition of WCT-based biodiesel ranges from C13 to C24. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Experimental studies on high-quality bio-oil production via pyrolysis of Azolla by the use of a three metallic/modified pyrochar catalyst
In this study, the potential of the pyrolysis method to overcome the negative effects of Azolla-filiculoides in infected areas was thoroughly investigated. Non-catalytic pyrolysis experiments were conducted at a temperature range of 400–700 °C. The highest possible bio-oil yield (35 wt%) was attained at 500 °C. To achieve the best chemical composition of bio-oil and higher amount of synthesis gas the catalytic pyrolysis were conducted in a dual-bed quartz reactor at the optimum temperature (500 °C). Although, all three catalysts (pyro-char, modified pyro-char (MPC), and Mg-Ni-Mo/MPC) showed almost an impressive performance in promotion of the common reactions, Mg-Ni-Mo/MPC catalyst have illustrated the stunning results by increasing the percentage of furan compounds from 5.25% to 33.07%, and decreasing the acid compounds from 25.56% to 9.09%. Using GC–MS and GC-FID liquid and gaseous products were fully analyzed. The carbon-based catalysts were also evaluated via FTIR, FESEM, EDX, and BET analyses. 

Effective biodiesel synthesis from palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD)using carbon-based solid acid catalyst derived glycerol
Cost efficient and environmental friendly carbon derived glycerol (CG)was prepared by insitu carbonication and sulfonation process. The synthesized CG was sulfonated with H2SO4 for 10 h denoted as SCG-(10) catalyst. The physico-chemical properties of the prepared catalyst were characterized by using X-ray diffraction (XRD), fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), temperature programmed desorption-ammonia (TPD-NH3), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET)surface area, variable pressure scanning electron microscope (VPSEM), high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM)and CHNSO elemental analysis. The specific surface area and total acidity were increased significantly after being sulfonated at different time of reflux; whereas, the SCG-(10) catalyst showed the highest total amount of acidity (35117.14 μmol/g). Esterification of palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD)was successfully obtained high fatty acid methyl esters (FAME)with yield 97.8% at optimum parameter of 18:1 methanol to PFAD molar ratio, 5 wt% catalyst loading and 90 °C reaction temperature within 1 h. The catalyst was successfully reused for 7 cycles and it was found that the catalytic activity maintained with &gt;96% of FAME yield for the first three run. The regenerated SCG-(10) catalyst has been used for another four consecutive of reusability run indicates the viability of utilizing carbon catalyst derived glycerol for biodiesel production. 

Pilot-scale production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil using kettle limescale as a heterogeneous catalyst
This study aimed to evaluate and optimize a pilot-scale microreactor to convert waste cooking oil (WCO) into biodiesel using kettle limescale. Box-Behnken design was used to determine the optimum conditions for producing biodiesel. Effects of main variables including reaction temperature, catalyst concentration, and alcohol/oil volume ratio were evaluated at a constant residence time of 10 min. Based on the results of analysis of variance, the quadratic regression model had the best coefficient of determination (R2=0.9930) and adjusted coefficient of determination (RAdj.2= 0.9804). After the optimization of temperature, catalyst concentration, and methanol/oil volume ratio, the residence time was optimized to achieve the maximum purity of the produced biodiesel. At a reaction temperature of 61.7 °C, catalysts concentration (oil based) of 8.87 wt %, methanol to oil volume ratio of 1.7:3, and a residence time of 15 min, we observed the optimal conditions for obtaining a maximum biodiesel purity of 93.41%.

Ion-exchanged zeolite P as a nanostructured catalyst for biodiesel production
Nano-crystalline synthetic gismondine modified via cation exchange has been utilised as a highly active and selective catalyst for the production of biofuel. In comparison with low silica zeolites FAU and LTA, K-form of gismondine, based on the maximum aluminium P (MAP) zeolite, exhibited a significant improvement in catalytic performance in the methanolysis of bio-oil, which can be attributed to its nano-particle morphology and high basicity associated with the high Al content and high degree of ion exchange, as demonstrated by the TEM, XRD, TGA, NMR, XPS and CO 2 -TPD studies. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on a successful catalytic application of basic K-MAP zeolite. The Authors

Techno-economic performance of different technological based bio-refineries for biofuel production
There are different technologies for biodiesel production, each having its benefits and drawbacks depending on the type of feedstock and catalyst used. In this study, the techno-economic performances of four catalyst technologies were investigated. The catalysts were bulk calcium oxide (CaO), enzyme, nano-calcium oxide, and ionic liquid. The study was mainly based on process simulations designed using Aspen Plus and SuperPro software. The quantity and quality of biodiesel and glycerol, as well as the amount of biodiesel per amount of feedstock, were the parameters to evaluate technical performances. The parameters for economic performances were total investment cost, unit production cost, net present value (NPV), internal return rate (IRR), and return over investment (ROI). Technically, all the studied options provided fuel quality biodiesel and high purity glycerol. However, under the assumed market scenario, the process using bulk CaO catalyst was more economically feasible and tolerable to the change in market values of major inputs and outputs. On the contrary, the enzyme catalyst option was very expensive and economically infeasible for all considered ranges of cost of feedstock and product. The result of this study could be used as a basis to do detail estimates for the practical implementation of the efficient process. by the authors.

A hybrid hydrogel separated biofuel cell with a novel enzymatic anode and glucose tolerant cathode
Enzymatic biofuel cells offer a new avenue of eco-friendly energy generation which is highly essential to establish a sustainable energy infrastructure. Herein, a hybrid fuel cell using an immobilised enzyme-based anode, a hydrogel-based separator and a glucose tolerant catalyst based cathode has been fabricated and demonstrated. Multiwalled carbon nanotube-pyrene carboxylic acid (MWCNT–PCA) nanocomposite based anode has been used for the electrostatic immobilisation of glucose oxidase enzyme. Agar-polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) hydrogel is used as the separator which supplies the fuel cell with 500 mM glucose solution. Reduced graphene oxide-ceria (rGC) acts as the glucose tolerant non-enzymatic cathode catalyst. A sandwiched construction is used to fabricate the device with which an open circuit potential of 140 mV has been recorded with a peak power density of 6.25 μW/cm2 at 60 μA/cm2. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Acrylic acid hydrodeoxygenation reaction mechanism over molybdenum carbide studied by DFT calculations
Platinum- and palladium-based catalysts are commonly used in hydrogenation reactions, but they present a great disadvantage of being quite expensive. In most cases, they can be substituted by cheaper alternative catalysts formed by transition metal carbides, such as molybdenum carbide (Mo2C). Among the reactions that can be catalyzed by Mo2C, hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) presents a great technological interest, especially in biofuel production. Nonetheless, the selectivity of carbides in HDO reactions of fatty acids is not well understood yet. In the present work, the reaction mechanism of the acrylic acid HDO over Mo2C, a fatty acid model molecule, was studied by density functional theory (DFT), with Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional and periodic boundary conditions. A global mechanism is proposed, divided in four steps, from acrylic acid to propane. In the first reaction step, decomposition by C–OH bond cleavage, with 24 kcal mol− 1 of activation energy, dominates over C=C and C=O hydrogenation. This result is in line with the absence of propanoic acid among the products and the formation of acrolein, as shown in an experimental work previously published. The proposed global mechanism is in fair agreement with the experimental findings. The main product is propane, which has the same number of carbon atoms of the reactant. This mechanism can be viewed as a model for HDO of any fatty acid catalyzed by Mo2C, since acrylic acid has the minimal structural features of fatty acids, i.e., a carboxyl group and a C=C double bond. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Application of magnetic alumina-ferric oxide nanocatalyst supported by KOH for in-situ transesterification of microalgae cultivated in wastewater medium
Nowadays, use of microalgae as a cheap feedstock and heterogeneous catalysts for biodiesel production has gained considerable interest as they mitigate environmental problems induced by the conventional process of biodiesel production using homogeneous alkali catalysts. However, separation of heterogeneous catalysts from tissues and carcass of microalgae is an important task. For this reason, a magnetic Fe2O3–Al2O3 nanocatalyst promoted by potassium groups was synthesized using a modified impregnation method and was profoundly studied and compared with nanocatalysts without ferric oxide using X-ray diffraction, Fourier-transform infrared, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller and Barrett-Joyner-Halenda, scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy and energy-dispersive spectroscopy analyses. The results revealed that the magnetic nanocatalyst with a core-shell structure had suitable surface area, pore size, and particle size and also had no impurity on its structure. The nanocatalyst was used for biodiesel production from microalgae cultivated in a wastewater medium via in-situ transesterification reaction. The nanocatalyst converted 95.6% of microalgae lipids to esters at optimum conditions of 65 °C, 12 mL g−1 of methanol-to-dry biomass, 4 wt% of magnetic catalyst and 6 h of reaction time. The magnetic K/Fe2O3–Al2O3 core-shell nanocatalyst was reused for several times and presented high stability with less reduction in its activity until six runs. 

Magnetic cross-linked enzyme aggregates of Km12 lipase: A stable nanobiocatalyst for biodiesel synthesis from waste cooking oil
Enzymatic production of biodiesel from waste cooking oils (WCOs)is expected as an efficient procedure for resolving the problems of energy demand and environment pollutions. But, high cost of lipases has been found as a main obstacle to commercialize the enzymatic transesterification. In the present study, cross-linked enzyme aggregates of Km12 lipases have been coupled with amino coated magnetite nanoparticles. SEM analysis showed that mCLEAs-lipase (mCLEAs-lip)nanocomposites have spherical structures. The mCLEAs-lip displayed a shift in optimal pH towards the alkaline, whereas optimal temperature was also shift towards low temperature. mCLEAs-lip nanocomposite reserves its total activity up to 6 cycles of enzyme re-using. Furthermore, it reserves 60% of its initial activity more than free enzyme after 24 days of incubation at 4 °C. Biodiesel production from waste cooking oils by immobilized enzyme increased about 20% more than free enzyme. Therefore, the present study displays great practical latent to produce renewable fuel such as biodiesel. 

Reaction parameters effect on hydrothermal liquefaction of castor (Ricinus Communis)residue for energy and valuable hydrocarbons recovery
Castor plant (Ricinus communis)is a fast growing, perennial shrub also known as wonder tree from Euphorbiaceae family. India ranks globally first with production of 87% of the castor seed, while second and third largest producer countries, China and Brazil produced 5% and 1%, respectively. Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL)is one of the most promising thermochemical conversion process used to convert wet/high moisture biomass to biofuels and value-added hydrocarbons. HTL of castor residue (stem and leaves)was performed at 260, 280, 300 °C and 15, 30, 60, 90 min. Investigations on the effect of temperature and residence time on distribution of products (bio-oil, bio-char)indicated the maximum Total Bio-oil (TBO)yield of c.a. 15.8 wt% was obtained at 300 °C at 60 min. The major compounds observed by GC-MS were phenols and their derivatives, aromatic hydrocarbons, N-containing compounds, acids. In addition, the recovery of carbon and corresponding energy recovery with respect to castor residue indicated that the carbon and energy recovery for bio-oil 1 were 24.23% and 31.08% respectively. An increase in the carbon and decrease of oxygen content in bio-oil (BO)demonstrates that the castor residue can be used as a potential feedstock for bioenergy applications. 

Catalytic liquefaction of switchgrass in isobutanol/water system for bio-oil development over bifunctional Ni-HPMo/Fe3O4@Al-MCM-41 catalysts
A bifunctional Ni-HPMo/Fe3O4@Al-MCM-41 catalyst was prepared by impregnation method and used for the liquefaction of switchgrass in isobutanol/water mixed solvents. It was found that the introduction of Al species into MCM-41 could improve its catalytic performance of catalyst by enhancing the acidity and stability of mesoporous silica. The grafting of HPMo onto the Al-MCM-41 materials not only greatly increased the acidity but also enhanced the acid strength, with an optimal HPMo loading amount in the catalyst of 20 wt%. There was a clear effect of the catalyst on product yield and quality. A switchgrass conversion of 84.7% and a liquid yield of 55.0% could be obtained under the optimal conditions. Reuse of the catalyst indicated that it had a stable catalytic activity. Furthermore, the results showed that the isobutanol/water system was an efficient solvent for switchgrass liquefaction as well as the separation of higher heating value isobutanol phase products and lower heating value water phase products from the liquefaction mixture. This work thus offers an effective approach to improve the product yields and quality in biomass liquefaction by using metal-heteropolyacid bifunctional catalysts. 

Green CO2-Assisted Synthesis of Mono- And Bimetallic Pd/Pt Nanoparticles on Porous Carbon Fabricated from Sorghum for Highly Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural
The green utilization of biomass waste and its eco-friendly conversion into biofuels and value-added chemicals play a crucial role in resolving energy demand and environmental pollution. Herein, we report a win-win strategy to utilize biomass waste to fabricate functional materials and then transform biomass-derived source into valuable products. We developed a one-step strategy using the green solvent CO2 deposition method to spatially confine monometallic Pd and Pt and bimetallic Pd-Pt nanoparticles in a porous carbon fabricated from biomass waste sorghum at a very low temperature of 40-70 °C. The synthesized monometallic Pd and Pt and bimetallic Pd-Pt nanoparticles display superior performance in the selective conversion of biomass-based furfural into fine chemicals, furfuryl alcohol and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol. With only 3 wt % Pd or 3 wt % Pt supported on the synthesized porous carbon, these catalysts are far superior to the commercial 5 wt % Pd or Pt on carbon support, respectively. The turnover number of the as-prepared 3 wt % Pd/C catalyst shows ∼7 times improvement compared with the commercial 5 wt % Pd/C. This study provided a one-step method to precisely confine monometallic Pd and Pt and bimetallic Pd-Pt in the porous channel of the carbon support, offered more catalytic active sites, and presented excellent performance and high stability. The methodology developed in this work is promising for the synthesis of various metallic nanoparticles and valorization of biomass. Copyright American Chemical Society.

The hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) with sol–gel Ru-Co/SiO2 catalyst
Sol–gel Ru/SiO2, Co/SiO2, and Ru-Co/SiO2 catalysts were prepared for 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) hydrogenation to 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF). Catalysts were characterized by BET, XRD, TPR, TEM, and XPS. Reactions were run with catalysts that were reduced at 500 °C for 1 h. Reaction time, temperature and hydrogen pressure effects were studied for hydrogenation. In the presence of both Ru and Co, the easier reduction was observed at Ru-Co/SiO2 catalyst. Although no DMF yield was observed with Ru/SiO2 and Co/SiO2, 96% DMF was obtained at 180 °C, under 15 bar H2 pressure for 2 h. Moreover &gt;99.9% DMF yield was achieved with Ru-Co/SiO2 at 120 °C for 8 h and at 140 °C for 4 h, respectively. DMF yield did not change significantly after third use, however deactivation was observed after fifth use of catalyst. It may be attributed to oxidation of cobalt active sites during recycle runs. [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Production, engine performance, combustion, emission characteristics and economic feasibility of biodiesel from waste cooking oil: A review
The depletion of fossil fuel reserves and increasing demands for diesel are considered to be important triggers for many of the initiatives that have been taken to search for possible sources for the production of biodiesel from materials available within the country. It is possible to produce biodiesel from waste/used cooking oils (WCO) that is comparable in quality to that of fresh vegetable oil. Not only does reuse of WCO, which can otherwise harm human health, reduce the burden on the government of treating oily wastewater, disposing of the waste, and maintaining public sewers, it also significantly lowers the production cost of biodiesel. In the process of frying, oil undergoes many reactions, leading to the formation of a number of undesirable compounds, such as polymers, free fatty acids, and many other chemicals. This poses challenges in the transesterification of WCO. This article covers different techniques in the production of biodiesel from WCO. It also compares combustion, emissions, and engine performance characteristics of biodiesel from WCO as well as factors affecting biodiesel production from WCO and its economic feasibility. Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

The effect of economic variables on a bio-refinery for biodiesel production using calcium oxide catalyst﻿
This study investigates the effect of market variables on biodiesel production and considers a calcium oxide catalyzed transesterification process. A conceptual process simulation of a plant using Super Pro software was used to vary the economic scenarios and to evaluate the effects of selected variables such as prices of biodiesel, glycerol, oil, alcohol, catalyst, equipment maintenance, labor, and tax variation. Changing the values of these variables led to large effects on the overall economics of the production process. Oil purchasing cost exerted a larger influence on the economic outcome, with an approximately 73% decrease in net present value (NPV) for a 22% increase in the oil purchasing cost. Under optimum conditions the process would be profitable for oil costs below 590US$ ton−1. Varying the equipment maintenance costs produced a smaller effect, which could allow the amount of cost allocated for routine maintenance activities to be increased to sustain the productivity of the process. The study could also provide cutoff values for each variable for economic feasibility of the process at the given market scenario. The Authors. Biofuels, Bioproducts and Biorefining published by Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. The Authors. Biofuels, Bioproducts and Biorefining published by Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Performance and emission reduction characteristics of cerium oxide nanoparticle-water emulsion biofuel in diesel engine with modified coated piston
In the present scenario, the utilization of petroleum fuel is expanding forcefully worldwide in the vitality store and plays a highly hazardous role in the ecological system. Biofuel stands out among the most tenable keys for this issue. The lemongrass oil is used as a biofuel because of low density and viscosity when compared with diesel. The lemongrass oil is extracted by steam distillation process. In the present investigation, partially stabilized zirconium, due to its higher thermal conductivity, is selected as coating material. The top surface of the piston and the inlet and exhaust valves are coated up to the preferred thickness of 500 μm by the plasma spray technique. The lemongrass emulsion fuel is prepared in the proportion of 94% of lemongrass oil, 5% of water, and 1% of surfactant span 80. The nanoparticles of cerium oxide were used with lemongrass oil (LGO) nano-emulsion in the measurement of 30 ppm. The four-stroke diesel engine execution, ignition, and the outflow extent were contrasted in the diesel and lemongrass oil (LGO) compared with the base diesel engine. The performance characteristic curves of lemongrass-cerium oxide nano-emulsion fuel show the increase in brake thermal efficiency of 17.21% when compared with the mineral diesel fuel. The emission characteristics of lemongrass-cerium oxide nano-emulsion fuel show a drop in hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emission by 16.21% and 15.21%, respectively, when compared with base diesel fuel and also there is a decrease in oxides of nitrogen and smoke emission by 24.1% and 6.3%, respectively, when compared to mineral diesel fuel., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Benign-by-design nature-inspired nanosystems in biofuels production and catalytic applications
Natural sources display a high potential for the production of sustainable materials because of their exceptional structural and physical features, nontoxicity, biocompatibility, availability and cost-effectiveness. Nanostructured systems show high surface/volume ratio, and unusual electrical, mechanical, surface and magnetic properties. The preparation of heterogeneous nanocatalysts from natural resources has recently become increasingly attractive for researchers. The present overview discuses extensively and comprehensively the main natural sources used to prepare the new generation of safer and cheaper catalytic nanosystems. We place a significant emphasis on both the different synthetic strategies for the preparation of the Nature-inspired nanocatalyst and the role of the natural materials over the structural and morphological properties of the resulting nanocatalysts. The catalytic applications of nature-inspired materials were finally featured, highlighting the advantages of using nanotechnology and environmental resources as well as their potential towards the production of alternative energies. 

Nano catalytic ozonation of biomethanated distillery wastewater for biodegradability enhancement, color and toxicity reduction with biofuel production
The effectiveness of O3, O3/Fe2+, and O3/nZVI processes on biomethanated distillery wastewater (BMDWW) was evaluated in terms of biodegradability index (BI) enhancement, biofuel production, COD, color &amp; toxicity reduction. A significant increase in biodegradability, COD, color and toxicity reduction was observed in O3/nZVI compared with O3, O3/Fe2+ due to more hydroxyl radical production. The O3/nZVI pretreated wastewater with enhanced BI (up to 0.71) showed 60% COD removal with additional biogas generation (64% methane content). From the Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis, 18 foremost organic compounds were predominantly detected in the raw distillery wastewater. The disappearance of the corresponding FTIR (Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy) &amp; GC-MS spectra during pretreatment processes signified the degradation or transformation of the recalcitrant present in the distillery wastewater. Subsequent (AnO + AO, AO) of pretreated BMDWW resulted in biodegradation rate enhancement by (1.83, 1.67), (3.5, 2.4) and (4.7, 2.9) times for O3, O3/Fe2+ and O3/nZVI processes respectively. 

Biodiesel synthesis from microalgae (Anabaena PCC 7120)by using barium titanium oxide (Ba2TiO4)solid base catalyst
In this study, Anabaena PCC 7120 microalgae is used as feedstock for biodiesel synthesis. Anabaena 7120 was cultivated in a closed photobioreactor. Oil was extracted by cell disruption process and purified by degumming process. Anabaena oil was characterized by GCMS spectroscopy. Barium titanium oxide (Ba2TiO4)heterogeneous catalyst was prepared by wet impregnation process and characterized through various techniques such as TGA, XRD, FTIR, HR-SEM, EDX and surface area analyzer. Basicity of synthesized catalyst was calculated by Hammett indicator titration method. The synthesized Ba2TiO4 was used in transesterification of Anabaena oil for biodiesel production and it was reused up to six cycles. The highest FAME conversion from anabaena oil was found to be 98.41% under optimized condition of 1:18 M ratio (oil:methanol), 3.5 wt% of catalyst loading and 180 min of reaction time at 65 °C temperature and 400 rpm stirring speed.

Bulk features of catalytic co-pyrolysis of sugarcane bagasse and a hydrogen-rich waste: The case of waste heavy paraffin
In this study, catalytic and non-catalytic pyrolysis and co-pyrolysis of pretreated and intact sugarcane bagasse was investigated using waste heavy paraffin (as an in-situ supply of hydrogen). A Y-type commercial zeolite catalyst (HGY-A) which is a gasoline boosting catalyst suitable for hydrocracking reactions in oil refining was used for catalytic pyrolysis. Co-feeding of bagasse with paraffin produced higher liquid product yields and lower solid yields. The improved effective hydrogen to carbon ratio (H/Ceff) of the feedstock, and primary cracking and fragmentation reactions of heavy paraffin at temperatures around 600 °C are responsible for considerable improvement of bio-oil yield. Use of HGY-A catalyst did change the composition of the produced bio-oil; however, it did not have any appreciable impact on the bio-oil yield under various operational conditions. Results showed that acidic pretreatment of bagasse (with a 30% w/w HCl) reduced the bio-oil yield and increased the char yield. 

Corrosion rate prediction for metals in biodiesel using artificial neural networks
The objective of this research was to develop a direct artificial neural network with the ability to predict a corrosion rate of metals in different biodiesel. Experimental values were obtained by the electrochemical noise technique, EN, as well as, information reported in the literature. A backpropagation model was proposed with three layers; metal and biodiesel composition, blend biodiesel/diesel, total acid number (TAN), temperature and exposure time were considered as input variables in the model. The best fitting training data were acquired with 24:4:1, considering a Levenberg –Marquardt learning algorithm, a hyperbolic tangent and linear transfer functions in the hidden and output layer respectively. Experimental and simulated data were compared satisfactorily through the linear regression model with a correlation coefficient of 0.9885 and a mean square error, MSE, of 2.15 × 10−4 in the validation stage. Furthermore, the model agreed the requirements of the slope and the intercept statistical test with a 99% confidence. The obtained results indicated that the ANN model could be attractive as corrosion rate estimator. 

Continuous Flow Selective Hydrogenation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-Dimethylfuran Using Highly Active and Stable Cu-Pd/Reduced Graphene Oxide
2,5-Dimethylfuran (DMF) has been considered a promising biofuel additive, potentially derived from renewable resources. There have been various reports on DMF production from hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). However, most reports employed high hydrogen pressure, long reaction times, and reactions under batch conditions. In this study, Cu-Pd bimetallic catalysts incorporated on reduced graphene oxide (RGO) were used for selective hydrogenation of HMF to DMF using 2-propanol as hydrogen donor under continuous flow conditions. Synthesized catalysts were characterized by N2 physisorption, SEM-EDX, XRD, XPS, TEM, and H2-TPR techniques. 10Cu-1Pd/RGO exhibited 96% HMF conversion with 95% DMF yield under optimum reaction conditions with good stability with time on stream. XRD and XPS results pointed to the presence of a palladium-copper alloy, which could enhance both the activity and especially the stability in the conversion of HMF toward DMF. The effect of temperature, pressure, and feed flow rate were also investigated on the catalytic performance. The stability of catalyst was tested for 8 h time on stream, where it was found that the catalyst displayed good stability. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Multi-objective optimization of modified nanofluid fuel blends at different TiO2 nanoparticle concentration in diesel engine: Experimental assessment and modeling
Application of metal nanoparticles as combustion catalyst in diesel biodiesel fuel blends has grown recently. Efficient utilization of modified nanofluid fuels (MNF) is possible only when engine operating, fuel injection parameters are optimized accordingly. In the present research, experimental and statistical analysis is carried out on a commercial diesel engine (3.5 KW) with the aim to determine the optimal doping rate of nanoparticles and engine operating parameters using response surface methodology (RSM) and desirability function approach (DFA). The modified nanofluid (MNF) fuels used are blend of Acacia Concinna biodiesel (40% by vol.) and diesel (60% by vol.) mixed with titanium dioxide (TiO2) metal nanoparticles in different concentrations. Initially, the prepared fuel blends are characterized by SEM, TEM, blend stability (Uv–Vis spectrophotometery and sedimentation analysis) and various other properties. The optimal value, TiO2 doping rate of 150 mg/liter (MNF150), injection timing of 22.5 °CA btdc and 82.37% engine load is found to be the most suitable combination. Under these condition, brake thermal efficiency (BTE), brake specific fuel consumption (BSFC), ignition delay (ID), hydrocarbon (HC), smoke emissions are improved by 3.25%, 18.42%,7%, 38%, 20% respectively with slightly higher NOx emissions in comparison to diesel. This is observed with an overall high desirability value of 0.707. The modeling of engine output responses are (assuming quadratic model order) found to be statistically fit at 95.0% C.I level with residuals to be normally distributed. Further, a close agreement between experimental and model predicted values of responses, prove the adequacy of developed models. 

Hydrothermal liquefaction of Chlorella vulgaris and Nannochloropsis gaditana in a continuous stirred tank reactor and hydrotreating of biocrude by nickel catalysts
Continuous hydrothermal liquefaction and further upgrading of the algal biocrude are of great importance for algae biofuel process scale-up and improvement of fuel properties. In this study, two strains of microalgae were used for processing in a continuous stirred tank reactor at 350 °C and 24 MPa for 15 min residence time. An average of 36.2 wt% and 31.5 wt% biocrude yields were achieved for Chlorella vulgaris and Nannochloropsis gaditana, respectively. The obtained biocrude was further upgraded by hydrotreating using commercial NiMo/Al2O3 and NiW/Al2O3 catalysts at two temperatures (250 °C and 400 °C) in a batch autoclave reactor for 4 h. Products distribution, analysis by elemental content, gas chromatography (GC), gel permeation chromatography (GPC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR) on upgrading products indicate that upgrading by both catalysts lead to improved physicochemical fuel properties, during 250 °C upgrading step, decarbonylation, decarboxylation and repolymerization are the dominant reactions while hydrodeoxygenation and cracking reaction are more promoted at 400 °C. The gasoline, kerosene and diesel oil components in the algal biocrude were increased from 18 wt% to &gt;30 wt% after catalytic upgrading.

Optimization of process variables for biodiesel production by transesterification of flaxseed oil and produced biodiesel characterizations
Optimization of the operating factors to achieve the maximum yield of biodiesel through transesterification reaction was performed by using face-centered central composite design (FCCD) approach of response surface methodology. A total of 29 independent batch experiments were considered in this model to carefully observe the effect of operating factors, such as the volume ratio of methanol/oil, catalyst (KOH) weight percent, reaction temperature, and reaction time. The FCCD model predicted that a maximum yield of 99.5% biodiesel would be achieved from flaxseed oil at a reaction temperature of 59 °C, 0.51% catalyst, the reaction time of 33 min, and a molar ratio of methanol to flaxseed oil of 5.9:1. Experimental verification of the predicted yield under the optimum conditions gave a maximum yield of 98 ± 2%, which is in very good agreement with the predicted value of the model. The physicochemical properties of the flaxseed oil-derived biodiesel were compared with those of standard biodiesel to identify and verify the quality of the produced biodiesel. All observed physicochemical parameters of the flaxseed oil-derived biodiesel were closely in agreement with those of standard biodiesel. Thus, demonstrating that the production of high-quality biodiesel from flaxseed oil is a viable option.

Nano-magnetic potassium impregnated ceria as catalyst for the biodiesel production
The main objective of this work comprises the investigation of biodiesel production from rapeseed oil using potassium impregnated Fe3O4-CeO2 nanocatalyst. The various concentration of potassium impregnated Fe3O4-CeO2 was screened for catalytic conversion of rapeseed oil to triglyceride methyl ester. The 25 wt % potassium impregnated Fe3O4-CeO2 nanocatalyst showed best biodiesel production. Nanocatalyst was characterized by FTIR, XRD, SEM, TEM, BET and Hammett indicator for basicity test. The characterization of biodiesel was performed with GC-MS, 1H and 13C NMR. Moreover, the optimum reaction parameters such as catalyst amount (wt %), oil to methanol ratio, reaction time and reaction temperature for transesterification reaction was analyzed and yield was determined by 1H NMR. The maximum yield of 96.13% was obtained at 4.5 wt % catalyst amount, 1:7 oil to methanol ratio at 65 °C for 120 min. The properties of biodiesel such as acid value and kinematic viscosity were observed as 0.308 mg KOH/g and 4.37 mm2/s respectively. The other fuel parameters such as flash point and density were also determined. The reusability of catalyst was observed and it showed stability up to five cycles without considerable loss of activity. The recovery of excess methanol after transesterification reaction was achieved using distillation process setup. 

Texture/phase evolution during plasma treatment of microwave-combustion synthesized KOH/Ca12Al14O33-C nanocatalyst for reusability enhancement in conversion of canola oil to biodiesel
Glow-discharge plasma was utilized for treating the KOH/carbonated calcium aluminate synthesized by MCM. Treated and untreated nanocatalysts were characterized by XRD, FESEM, EDX-dot mapping, TEM, TGA/DSC, FTIR and N2 adsorption-desorption measurements. Moreover, some analyses were performed on the catalyst after assessment its catalytic activity in the microwave-assisted transesterification reaction. Treated and untreated nanocatalyst presented Ca12Al14O33 structure as support which was covered by carbon groups. The plasma treating was significantly effect on the potassium component as surface active phase and interaction of potassium and calcium with aluminium cations such that no agglomeration of active phases with the highest crystallinity was observed. The plasma treated sample showed better textural properties than untreated nanocatalyst. The main advantage of plasma was clearly observed on the stability of the nanocatalyst that the reduction the activity of untreated sample was more than two times of those for treated nanocatalyst. The plasma treated KOH/Ca12Al14O33-C exhibited no deformation of support structure and leaching of calcium component in the reaction medium against of untreated sample. Therefore, the plasma–microwave hybrid synthesis method provides an excellent rout for preparation of surface modified nanocatalysts for biodiesel production with the highest activity and stability to decrease the production cost. 

Investigation of solid base catalysts for biodiesel production from fish oil
A series of composite CaO-Ca3Al2O6 mixed oxides were investigated as potential catalysts for biodiesel synthesis from waste fish oil. Different Ca/Al ratios, in the range of 1.5–6 were studied, alongside pure CaO. The catalysts were characterised by X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and CO2-Temperature Program Desorption (TPD). The catalytic activity of the materials was studied for the transesterification reaction of cod liver oil with methanol at 65 °C, with 1:12 oil to methanol molar ratio and 10 wt% of catalyst. Over 97% conversion of the triglycerides to methyl esters was achieved for the 6Ca/Al catalyst after 2 h reaction time. This was similar to the performance of CaO. However, 6Ca/Al catalyst was reused successfully for seven consecutive tests, in contrast to CaO that was reused for only five tests, before it deactivated. Therefore, by incorporating the Ca3Al2O6, it was possible to enhance the stability of the catalytically active species and improve the lifetime of the catalyst. Post-test catalyst characterisation showed the formation of an intermediate phase (calcium diglyceroxide) that enhanced the catalyst's performance and tolerance to air exposure and humidity. Finally, the catalyst deactivation, after seven cycles, took place due to the formation of Ca(OH)2 and CaCO3 species. 

Synthesis of a novel stabilized basic ionic liquid through immobilization on boehmite nanoparticles: A robust nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from soybean oil
A novel ionic liquid, chlorocholine hydroxide (CCH), was first synthesized and then stabilized on boehmite nanoparticles (BNPs-CCH). Variables such as weight percentage of catalyst, methanol to oil molar ratio and reaction time were evaluated to study the catalyst efficiency in the production of biodiesel from soybean oil and methanol. Results showed that the biodiesel yield maximum was obtained in 95.2% for optimal conditions of 11:1, 4.13 wt, 60 °C and 4.4 h for the molar ratio of methanol to oil, weight percentage of catalyst, temperature and reaction time, respectively. In addition, the prepared nanocatalyst was applied 5 times under optimal conditions in order to evaluate the catalyst efficiency. According to the results it still indicated as high efficiency as in the production of biodiesel. Therefore, the strength and durability of the resultant nanocatalyst were confirmed in this research. 

Catalytic hydrotreating of pyro-oil derived from green microalgae spirulina the (Arthrospira) plantensis over NiMo catalysts impregnated over a novel hybrid support
Upgrading of pyrolysis bio-oil by a novel catalytic hydrotreating process, including hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) and hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) was found as an effective technical method for the improvement of biofuel characteristics. In this study, for the first time, the performance of a novel meso-microporous composite material, HMS-ZSM-5, as a support on the catalytic activity of NiMo-based catalysts in the bio-oil hydrotreating was evaluated. The experiments were carried out in a flow fixed-bed reactor at the temperature range of 300–360 °C, 30 bar pressure, and LHSV = 4 h-1. Also, the results were and compared with those of HMS, ZSM-5, and γ-Al2O3 supports. For all catalysts, the increase in temperature resulted in the enhancement of HDO and HDN reactions efficiency. NiMo/HMS-ZSM-5 possessed a high acid property which contributed to the removal of oxygen and nitrogen from bio-oil, with the conversion of 84.10% and 69.60%, respectively. Therefore, the novel catalyst of this study represented much superior upgrading performances compared with those of stand-alone NiMo/HMS and NiMo/ZSM-5 catalysts and also the conventional catalyst of NiMo/γ-Al2O3. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Sono-dispersed MgO over cerium-doped MCM-41 nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from acidic sunflower oil: Surface evolution by altering Si/Ce molar ratios
In the present work, Mobil Composite Material no. 41 (MCM-41) utilized as the catalyst support for biodiesel production from Waste Cooking Oil (WCO). Different amounts of Si/Ce molar ratios (5, 10, 25, 50 and Ce = 0) introduced to the MCM-41 structure to synthesize the bifunctional nanocatalysts and achieve a modified support of high stability and acidity. Then, ultrasound used to disperse MgO active phase on support surface. The prepared nanocatalysts were investigated using various techniques as follows: XRD, EDX, TEM, FESEM, FTIR and BET. The XRD patterns along with the results of FTIR and BET analysis revealed the MCM-41 framework destruction while increasing the Ce content. The FESEM images of the nanocatalysts illustrated a well distribution and uniform morphology for the Mg/CeM (Si/Ce = 10). The particle size and size distribution of the Mg/CeM (Si/Ce = 10) were subsequently determined by TEM and FESEM images. Biodiesel production carried out under following constant operational parameters to evaluate catalytic performance of synthesized samples: T = 70 °C, catalyst loading = 5 wt%, methanol/oil molar ratio = 9, and 6 h reaction time. Ce substitution in support framework considerably enhanced the biodiesel conversion. The Mg/CeM (Si/Ce = 10) nanocatalyst demonstrated the highest conversion of 94.3%. The reusability of the Mg/CeM (Si/Ce = 10) studied in seven reaction cycles and biodiesel conversion reached to 88.7% at the end of seventh cycle which demonstrated its significant stability.

Porous Organic Polymer-Driven Evolution of High-Performance Cobalt Phosphide Hybrid Nanosheets as Vanillin Hydrodeoxygenation Catalyst
Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is a promising route for the upgrading of bio-oils to eco-friendly biofuel produced from lignocellulose. Herein, we report the sequential synthesis of a hybrid nanocatalyst CoxP@POP, where substoichiometric CoxP nanoparticles are distributed in a porous organic polymer (POP) via solid-state phosphidation of the Co3O4@POP nanohybrid system. We also explored the catalytic activity of the above two nanohybrids toward the HDO of vanillin, a typical compound of lignin-derived bio-oil to 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol, which is a promising future biofuel. The CoxP@POP exhibited superior catalytic activity and selectivity toward desired product with improved stability compared to the Co3O4@POP. Based on advanced sample characterization results, the extraordinary selectivity of CoxP@POP is attributed to the strong interaction of the cation of the CoxP nanoparticle with the POP matrix and the consequent modifications of the electronic states. Through attenuated total reflectance-infrared spectroscopy, we have also observed different interaction strengths between vanillin and the two catalysts. The decreased catalytic activity of Co3O4@POP compared to CoxP@POP catalyst could be attributed to the stronger adsorption of vanillin over the Co3O4@POP catalyst. Also from kinetic investigation, it is clearly demonstrated that the Co3O4@POP has higher activation energy barrier than the CoxP@POP, which also reflects to the reduction of the overall efficiency of the Co3O4@POP catalyst. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach in POP-encapsulated cobalt phosphide catalyst synthesis and comprehensive study in establishing the structure-activity relationship in significant step-forwarding in promoting biomass refining. American Chemical Society.

Stakeholder signalling and strategic niche management: The case of aviation biokerosene
This paper explores a case of reputation and stakeholder management in sustainability transitions. We use the case of aviation biofuel (biokerosene) to explore the complications around signalling in strategic niche management processes. Biokerosene is currently supplied at several Scandinavian airports in a low percentage blend, either as standard or upon request, although trials suggest that modern jet engines can reliably handle much higher percentage blends. Airlines, airports and biokerosene suppliers cooperate in a process of mutual strategic positioning that supports confidence-building and market development, while at the same time being intended to encourage positive stakeholder perceptions. A key challenge for the sector, however, is that signalling biokerosene as a response to aviation-related climate emissions is complicated by mixed societal perceptions of biofuel sustainability; and the policy and material conditions for affordable, sustainable, large scale supply of biofuel are lacking. Thus while parts of the sector would like to more clearly signal the value of existing and greater biokerosene use, interrelationships between reputational risks, supply constraints and economics limit this. By bringing stakeholder management theory to strategic niche management, we present a view of the latter as in part reputationally driven, in response to the uncertain legitimacy of a technology at an early stage in its market development. 

Three-Dimensional Sulfite Oxidase Bioanodes Based on Graphene Functionalized Carbon Paper for Sulfite/O2 Biofuel Cells
We have developed a three-dimensional (3D) graphene electrode suitable for the immobilization of human sulfite oxidase (hSO), which catalyzes the electrochemical oxidation of sulfite via direct electron transfer (DET). The electrode is fabricated by drop-casting graphene-polyethylenimine (G-P) composites on carbon papers (CPs) precoated with graphene oxide (GO). The negatively charged hSO can be adsorbed electrostatically on the positively charged matrix (G-P) on CP electrodes coated with GO (CPG), with a proper orientation for accelerated DET. Notably, further electrochemical reduction of G-P on CPG electrodes leads to a 9-fold increase of the saturation catalytic current density (jm) for sulfite oxidation reaching 24.4 ± 0.3 μA cm-2, the highest value among reported DET-based hSO bioelectrodes. The increased electron transfer rate plays a dominating role in the enhancement of direct enzymatic current because of the improved electric contact of hSO with the electrode. The optimized hSO bioelectrode shows a significant catalytic rate (kcat: 25.6 ± 0.3 s-1) and efficiency (kcat/Km: 0.231 ± 0.003 s-1 μM-1) compared to the reported hSO bioelectrodes. The assembly of the hSO bioanode and a commercial platinum biocathode allows the construction of sulfite/O2 enzymatic biofuel cells (EBFCs) with flowing fuels. The optimized EBFC displays an open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 0.64 ± 0.01 V and a maximum power density of 61 ± 6 μW cm-2 (122 ± 12 mW m-3) at 30 °C, which exceeds the best reported value by more than 6 times. American Chemical Society.

Studying the Effect of Promotion with Copper on the Activity of the Ni/Al2O3 Catalyst in the Process of Ester Hydrotreatment
Abstract: A study is made of the effect of the composition of the active component of copper-doped nickel catalysts on their activity and selectivity in the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of model compounds of vegetable oils (esters) to remove oxygen atoms from them with the formation of alkanes. It is shown that the Ni/Al2O3 and Ni–Cu/Al2O3 catalysts are active in this process. With them, the hydrodeoxygenation of methyl ester of hexadecanoic acid mixed with ethyl ester of decanoic acid results in the formation of С6−С16 alkanes and oxygen-containing products, while methane and ethane can be found in the gas phase. When the Ni : Cu ratio in the catalysts is lowered, the conversion of esters and the capability of these catalysts for C–C bond hydrogenolysis are reduced. This means the introduction of copper can promote retention of the carbon skeleton of alkanes obtained as a result of hydrodeoxygenation, along with the amount of methane. According to X-ray diffraction data, introducing copper into the Ni/Al2O3 catalyst results in the formation of Ni1 – xCux solid solutions. According to X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy data, lowering the content of copper in the Ni–Cu/Al2O3 catalyst raises the Ni : Cu ratio on a sample’s surface., Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

An assessment study of using Turel Kongreng (river mussels) as a source of heterogeneous catalyst for biofuel production
The present study is an assessment of using Turel Kongreng (river mussels) as a source of heterogenous catalyst in biodiesel production. After the calcination is performed at 800 °C for 1 h, the calcinated samples were subjected to characterization techniques such as X-ray dispersive analysis, Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy, Scanning electron microscopy and Energy dispersive x-ray analysis. The characterizations showed excellent formation of calcium oxide (CaO) and the same is compared with CaO synthesized from other sources. A confirmation test using the newly synthesized CaO is conducted using waste cooking oil with catalyst loading of 10% (wt.%), alcohol to oil ratio of 10:1, reaction temperature of 75 °C and a reaction time of 60 mins. The study showed a conversion rate of 91.04%, which is well within the high conversion band among all other catalyst materials. 

Investigation of Mannich reaction during co-liquefaction of microalgae and sweet potato waste
The denitrification of bio-oil remains an important challenge in bio-oil quality upgrading. Microalgae (MA) and sweet potato waste (SPW) were co-liquefied to investigate the denitrification of Mannich reaction. The influence of interaction reaction between MA and SPW on products qualities was explored. The results showed that the N contents of bio-oils from co-liquefaction (4.44–7.19%) were lower than that from microalgae (7.60%). Besides, the ester contents from MA&SPW (60.31–73.17%) were higher than that from MA (56.11%) and SPW (17.55%).The addition of SPW decreased the lubricating oil and fuel oil content. The experimental energy recovery efficiency (66.82–70.16%) was higher than the calculated energy recovery efficiency (65.68–66.69%) during co-liquefaction processes. Based on chemical compositions of products, a possible reaction pathway of Mannich reaction during co-liquefaction process was proposed. The current study suggested that co-liquefaction of microalgae and sweet potato waste was a feasibility way to improve the bio-oil quality and energy recovery efficiency. 

Highly efficient transfer hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin over Sn 4+ -induced highly dispersed Cu-based catalyst
Developing highly efficient non-noble-metal catalysts for the upgrade of abundant and low-cost renewable raw biomass into high-quality biofuels and important chemicals is especially desirable, but still remains huge challenges. Herein, Sn 4+ -induced highly dispersed Cu-based catalyst, Cu/Zn-Al-Sn layered double hydroxide (Cu/ZnAlSn-LDH), is delicately constructed for catalytic transfer hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin to promising 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) biofuel using 2-propanol as hydrogen source and solvent without any external hydrogen supply. Nearly total MMP yield is achieved under moderate reaction conditions (180 °C, 4 h) and the turnover number (TON) value calculated in Cu/ZnAlSn-LDH is about 3 times higher than that in Sn-free catalyst (Cu/ZnAl-LDH). Characterizations results reveal that the Sn 4+ species confined in the lattice of brucite-like layer of ZnAlSn-LDH are existed in electron-rich state, which can promote the formation of smaller Cu nanoparticles (1.95 nm) in Cu/ZnAlSn-LDH compared to those in Sn-free Cu/ZnAl-LDH catalyst (6.08 nm), as well as stronger metal-support interaction, thus leading to the higher catalytic performance and stability. The present findings offer a new avenue to strategically fabricate highly dispersed non-noble metal catalysts with enhanced catalytic performance by adjusting surface structures and compositions of supports for a wide range of hydrodeoxygenation of other biomass-derived compounds without any external hydrogen.

Synthesis, characterization, and optimization of Schizochytrium biodiesel production using Na+-doped nanohydroxyapatite
The present work investigates the synthesis of a new and highly efficient sodium-doped nanohydroxyapatite, as a heterogeneous catalyst for the production of fatty acid methyl esters from Schizochytrium algae oil. Sodium nitrate supported on nanohydroxyapatite catalyst was prepared using wet impregnation technique and calcinated at different temperatures. The synthesized nanocatalyst was characterized to determine the structural and morphological properties, using BET, XRD, TGA, FTIR, ICP, and TEM. Characterization results reported that the catalyst calcinated at 900°C exhibits good catalytic property. The catalyst was utilized for the production of biodiesel, under different reaction parameters through transesterification process. Response surface methodology (RSM) and artificial neural network (ANN) were employed to evaluate the best combination of molar ratio, catalyst concentration, and reaction time for transesterification process. By using point prediction method, the optimum yield of 96% was achieved at the catalyst concentration of 9.5 wt% of oil, 1:12 molar ratio, and 121-minute reaction time. The physiochemical properties of the biodiesel were determined, and the result suggested that the biodiesel produced met ASTM D6751 standard. The catalyst exhibits good catalytic performance on reusability up to six runs without the loss of molecular activity. Therefore, the synthesized heterogeneous catalyst derived from animal bone could be efficiently used for the biodiesel production. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Hierarchical Flower-like Bimetallic NiCu catalysts for Catalytic Transfer Hydrogenation of Ethyl Levulinate into γ-Valerolactone
Due to fast exploitation and consumption of fossil resources, efficient transformation of renewable biomass would be of vital significance for the production of biofuels and value-added chemicals. Here, we developed new alumina microsphere (AMS) supported bimetallic NiCu catalysts with a hierarchical flower-like architecture for highly efficient catalytic transfer hydrogenation of biomass-derived ethyl levulinate (EL) to γ-valerolactone (GVL), which were derived from flower-like core-shell structured AMS@Ni-Cu-Al layered double hydroxide precursors (AMS@NiCuAl-LDH). Various characterizations demonstrated that the reduction of NiCuAl-LDH precursors in situ grown on the AMS could generate bimetallic NiCu alloy nanoparticles embedded into surface standing and intercrossed LDH-derived alumina nanoplatelets (ANPs), thereby forming a novel hierarchical multilevel AMS@NiCu@ANPs superstructure. As-fabricated bimetallic NiCu catalyst with 0.5 Cu/Ni molar ratio exhibited enhanced activity for catalytic transfer hydrogenation, in comparison with monometallic and other bimetallic ones, owing to the synergy between Ni-Cu species in highly dispersed bimetallic NiCu nanoparticles, i.e., the electronic effect, favorable surface acid-base property, and highly porous architecture. Moreover, the catalyst possessed good stability and recyclability, due to strong interactions between ANPs and AMS support, as well as between NiCu NPs and ANPs matrix. American Chemical Society.

Quasi-Catalytic Approach to N-Unprotected Lactams via Transfer Hydro-amination/Cyclization of Biobased Keto Acids
Levulinic acid (LA) and formic acid (FA) are concurrently derivable from biomass sugars, and recognized as sustainable feedstock for producing biofuels and chemicals. Herein, a benign and eco-friendly approach using low-cost formamide (FAM) and FA as nitrogen and hydrogen source, respectively, was developed to be highly efficient for the synthesis of 5-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (MPLD, up to 93% yield) from LA under quasi-catalytic and solvent-free conditions in a relatively short reaction time of 90 min at 160 °C. Deuterium-labeled and control experiments with 2D NMR illustrated the occurrence of transfer hydroamination process, where FA acted as an acid as well as H-donor. The smooth proceeding of the initial C-N bond formation process mainly contributed to the rapid substrate conversion, while the concurrent amidation process was favorable for the subsequent cyclization to give the desired lactam, as proved by computational calculations and kinetic studies. In addition, this quasi-catalytic system was applicable to the synthesis of various N-unprotected lactams in 76-95% yields from keto acids under benign conditions, and the target product could be simply isolated by extraction. American Chemical Society.

Preparation and catalytic performance of tungstophosphoric acid anchored to SiO2@graphene aerogel 3D porous catalysts for the synthesis of ethyl levulinate biofuel
As fuel additives, ethyl levulinate (EL) can be used up to 5 wt% directly in the regular diesel engines, which can overcome the limited stock of fossil fuels and reduce the environment pollutions to some extent. In this work, the three-dimensional porous hybrids consisting of SiO2 and graphene aerogel, which are denoted as SiO2@GA, are facilely assembled and used as supports for H3PW12O40 (HPW)-based solid acid catalysts. Structural analysis confirms that the resultant HPW/SiO2@GA catalysts possess unique porous structure (SBET ≥ 257 m2 g−1, Vp ≥ 0.450 cm3 g−1) and exhibit excellent catalytic performance in the synthesis of EL by the esterification of levulinic acid (LA) with ethanol. The conversion of LA can be as high as 92.4% under the reaction conditions. Furthermore, various catalytic reaction parameters are also optimized over the 10 wt.% HPW/SiO2@GA catalysts, which exhibit the highest turnover frequency (TOF = 83.91 mmol g−1 h−1) among the resultant catalysts. The results confirm the promising application of the HPW/SiO2@GA heterogeneous catalysts in the synthesis of biofuel., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

An efficient utilization of Waste date pit oil for ethyl ester production
As a green material, date pit oil is increasingly utilized as an inexpensive feedstock for ethyl ester (biodiesel) production. Waste date pits as a raw material are one of the highly produced agricultural wastes in Iran. This study investigated the effect of several procedure parameters including the ethanol/oil molar ratio, reaction temperature and amount of catalysts on the yield of the produced ethyl ester. The activity of date pit oil can be considered a method of second-generation biofuels production including green diesel fractions. Efficient from waste date pits and synthesis of ethyl ester have made a breakthrough in biodiesel production. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) were employed to determine the composition of product. The optimized ethyl ester yield obtained was 92% when the procedure temperature was 65 °C, within 6h, with 7:1 ethanol/oil molar ratio with 0.75 wt.% of catalyst (KOH). Waste date pits oil as feedstock can be an efficient platform for ethyl ester production. The purified ethyl ester satisfies the stringent quality standards imposed by ASTM D-6751 (USA standard) and EN-14214 (European standard)., Iranian Chemical Society.

Biodiesel production from microalgae Nannochloropsis oculata using heterogeneous Poly Ethylene Glycol (PEG) encapsulated ZnOMn2+ nanocatalyst
In this present work nanocomposite composed of Mn-ZnO capped with Poly Ethylene Glycol (PEG) was utilized as heterogeneous catalyst for the transesterification of oil extracted from Nannochloropsis oculata into biodiesel using methanol as an acyl acceptor. The synthesized Mn-ZnO novel nanocomposite capped with Poly Ethylene Glycol (PEG) was characterized by using SEM and XRD. Lipid contents from the microalgae were extracted by sonication and biphasic solvent method. The process parameters involved for heterogeneous catalysis of N. oculata to biodiesel were optimized and found to be oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:15 (mol:mol), catalyst loading 3.5% (w/w) and reaction temperature of 60 °C for 4 h of reaction time by Response Surface Method. The reusability studies showed that the nano-catalyst can be reused efficiently for 4 cycles. The yield of biodiesel obtained from N. oculata species using Mn-ZnO nanocomposite capped with PEG was 87.5%. 

Synergism of clay with zinc oxide as nanocatalyst for production of biodiesel from marine Ulva lactuca
In the present work, Ulva lactuca, a marine macroalgae was used for the production of biodiesel. The ultrasound assisted extraction of oil from autoclaved algal biomass was found effective with maximum yield. The maximum oil was extracted at optimal conditions of 5% moisture content of algal biomass, 0.15 mm size of biomass, 6:1 solvent: solid ratio, at 55 °C in 140 min. The n-hexane with co-solvent methyl tertbutyl ether has shown higher oil when compared to other co-solvents. The extracted oil was transesterified into biodiesel using silica doped with zinc oxide as novel heterogeneous nanocatalyst. The maximum biodiesel yield of 97.43% was obtained at optimized conditions of 800 °C calcination temperature, 8% catalyst concentration, 9:1 methanol to oil ratio, 55 °C reaction temperature and 50 min reaction time. The kinetics of the transesterification reaction was also studied. The Ulva lactuca was found as a potential source for biodiesel production. 

Sono-dispersion of MgO over Al-Ce-doped MCM-41 bifunctional nanocatalyst for one-step biodiesel production from acidic oil: Influence of ultrasound irradiation and Si/Ce molar ratio
MCM-41 is a mesoporous silicate with hydrophobic structure which is a good candidate as catalyst support in biodiesel production, with high specific area (more than 1100 m2/g) and high thermal stability. In this study the hydrothermal stability and acidic property of Al-MCM-41 were improved by addition of Ce element into its structure with various amounts of Si/Ce molar ratio. Then it was loaded by magnesium with two different procedures: customary impregnation and Sono-dispersion. The following techniques were utilized to characterize the synthesized nanocatalysts: EDX, FTIR, FESEM, DRS, BET and XRD. The catalytic performance of bifunctional nanocatalysts for biodiesel production from acidic oil was analysed, while four operational parameters were fixed as: catalyst charge equal to 5 wt%, reaction temperature equal to 70 °C, reaction duration equal to 6 h and methanol/oil molar ratio equal to 9. Generally, the obtained results revealed that the conversion and the quality of produced biodiesel were increased significantly by increasing Ce amount of catalysts up to Si/Ce = 25 and also the sonicated sample represented a better reusability compare to non-sonicated one. Among the prepared samples, Mg/ACM-U (Si/Ce = 25) achieved the maximum conversion and high reusability for biodiesel production reaction after fifth cycle. Elsevier B.V.

Biodiesel production from microalgal biomass using CaO catalyst synthesized from natural waste material
Calcium oxide (CaO) catalyst was prepared using chicken egg shell waste and tested as a catalyst for the production of biodiesel from Chlorella vulgaris biomass. The calcination method was adopted for the synthesis of CaO catalyst. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) image showed that the catalyst had a spherical structure with average particle size of 46.1 ± 2.1 nm, further analysis was carried out using Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) adsorption, scanning electron microscopy, elemental analysis, X-ray diffraction and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy. Transesterification process was conducted by using response surface methodology (RSM) based on central composite design (CCD). The optimum reaction conditions were observed at 70 °C, 10:1 methanol: dry biomass ratio, 1.39% catalyst loading, 3 h reaction time, and 140 rpm stirring rate resulted 92.03% biodiesel yield. The key fuel properties includes; iodine value (88.5 g I2 100/g), cetane number (50.0), cloud point (9.2 °C), pour point (3.1 °C), oxidation stability (7.4 h), higher heating value (44.7), kinematic viscosity (4.5 mm2/s) and density (0.9 g/cm3) resulted good quality of microalgae biodiesel. Our research finding shows that the CaO catalyst derived from egg shell waste is an economically potential and eco-friendly catalyst for biodiesel production. 

Hydrogenolysis of Biomass-Derived 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to Produce 2,5-Dimethylfuran Over Ru-ZrO2-MCM-41 Catalyst
In this work, an effective catalytic route for the selective hydrogenolysis of renewable biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to high quality bio-fuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) was reported using Ru supported on ZrO2-MCM-41. The synthesized Ru supported on ZrO2-MCM-41 catalyst was characterized by different techniques such as XRD, BET surface area, XPS, SEM, TEM, EDX, TGA and TPD. Reaction parameters, like time, metal loading on ZrO2-MCM-41, catalyst loading, temperature, H2 pressure and solvent, were optimized for the conversion of HMF to DMF using prepared catalyst. The investigation performed in this study shows that Ru supported on ZrO2-MCM-41 is highly active and selective catalyst for effective transformation of the HMF into DMF in high yield and selectivity. With the use of 2 wt % Ru-ZrO2-MCM-41 catalyst, 90% yield of DMF was obtained from HMF with very short reaction time of 1 h. The catalyst was recycled upto six time with slight decrease in yield after 4th cycle. A direct conversion of Fructose to DMF was also achieved in 53% yield using Amberlyst-15 and 2%Ru-ZrO2-MCM-41 combined catalyst in n-butanol. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Fuzzy modeling and parameters optimization for the enhancement of biodiesel production from waste frying oil over montmorillonite clay K-30
Transesterification is a promising technology for the biodiesel production to provide an alternative fuel that considers the environmental concerns. From the economic and environmental protection points of view, utilization of waste frying oil for the production of biodiesel addresses very beneficial impacts. Production of higher yield of biodiesel is a challenging process in order to commercialize it with a lower cost. The current study focuses on the influence of different parameters such as reaction temperature (°C), reaction period (min), oil to methanol ratio and amount of catalyst (wt%) on the production of biodiesel. The main objective of this work is to develop a model via fuzzy logic approach in order to maximize the biodiesel produced from waste frying oil using montmorillonite Clay K-30 as a catalyst. The optimization for the operating parameters has been performed via particle swarm optimization (PSO) approach. During the optimization process, the decision variables were represented by four different operating parameters: temperature (40–140 °C), reaction period (60–300 min), oil/methanol ratio (1:6–1:18) and amount of catalyst (1–5 wt%). The model has been validated with the experimental data and compared with the optimal results reported based on other optimization techniques. Results showed the increment of biodiesel production by 15% using the proposed strategy compared to the earlier study. The obtained biodiesel production yield reached 93.70% with the optimal parameters for a temperature at 69.66 °C, a reaction period of 300 min, oil/methanol ratio of 1:9 and an amount of catalyst of 5 wt%. Elsevier B.V.

Biodiesel from fresh and waste sunflower oil using calcium oxide catalyst synthesized from local limestone
A study of converting fresh and waste sunflower oil to biodiesel through transesterification reaction using heterogeneous catalysts is established. Calcium Oxide (CaO) was selected as a basic heterogeneous catalyst because it is the cheapest and the most available comparing with other options. The characteristics of the catalyst were evaluated using several evaluation tests. The results confirm that the best preparation condition is at 850ºC and 2 hours. This catalyst has demonstrated positive results, high productivity and good recycling potential. The best conditions for reaction were obtained by varying the reaction conditions to obtain the highest bio-fuel production. The reaction has been studied in various operating conditions of methanol to oil molar ratio, catalyst loading, agitation speed and reaction time at temperature 65ºC. The maximum yield of biodiesel was 97.4% for fresh vegetable oil. Moreover, the catalyst shows perfect results for transesterification of waste vegetable oil. It was tested for market waste sunflower oil and home waste sunflower oil, where the yield was 88.2% and 91.6% respectively. The reuse of the catalyst showed good activity with no less than 5 cycles. So, the production of biodiesel using calcium oxide as a catalyst is a perfect promising approach., World Research Association. All rights reserved.

Catalytic pyrolysis of poplar wood over transition metal oxides: Correlation of catalytic behaviors with physiochemical properties of the oxides
Metal oxides are frequently used in the formulations of the catalysts for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass. This study aims to investigate the catalytic behaviors of the transition metal oxides (CoO, Cr2O3, CuO, Fe2O3, Mn2O3, NiO, TiO2 and V2O5) as well as CeO2 for the catalytic pyrolysis of poplar wood. The metal oxides, especially TiO2 and NiO could suppress further cracking of primary products, increasing the tar yield and simultaneously decreasing the gas yield. The V, Mn, Ti or Co-based catalyst promoted the formation of the heavy bio-oil, while the Ce, Cr, Cu or Fe-based catalysts were the opposite. The metal oxides (except Fe2O3) promoted the formation of alcohols, furan, ketones, acetic acid and phenolics in bio-oil. Fe2O3 catalysts suppressed formation of the derivatives from cellulose and hemicellulose except hydroxyl acetone. Hydroxyl acetone formation was promoted by almost all the oxide catalysts while hydroxyl aldehyde formation was the opposite. Remarkable coke formed over the V, Mn, Cu and Co-based catalysts. These oxides contain multiple valences and could be partially reduced to generate oxygen vacancies, which played important roles in the polymerisation reactions. In addition, the coke species formed on the oxide catalysts were mainly polymeric with low thermal stability. 

Synergistic bio-oil production from hydrothermal co-liquefaction of Spirulina platensis and Α-Cellulose
Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is a promising technology for the conversion of wet biomass into liquid fuels. In this study, the hydrothermal co-liquefaction (HTCL) of Spirulina platensis and α-Cellulose for bio-oil production was investigated. The bio-oil yield of HTCL was increased significantly by blending α-Cellulose with low-lipid content microalgae of Spirulina platensis in the absence of any catalysts supplementary which reduces the processing cost. The results showed that bio-oil productivity was increased drastically up to 40.33 wt % (28.53 wt % with pure Spirulina platensis and 14.47 wt % with pure α-Cellulose), with a positive synergistic effect (SE) of 16 wt % during the HTCL process. The composition of synthesized bio-oil was analyzed by GC-MS which revealed that HTCL of Spirulina platensis and α-Cellulose are to decrease of its heterocyclic compounds, increased esters and hydrocarbons contents than HTL of pure Spirulina platensis or α-Cellulose. The possible reaction pathways were derived by synthesized bio-oil composition. The maximum energy recovery rate 82% was obtained on HTCL process. The study concluded that, HTCL process is more favorable for the economic concern due to high convention of bio-oil efficiency. 

Process optimization for biodiesel production from sheep skin and its performance, emission and combustion characterization in CI engine
For the current research work, New Zealand origin sheep skin fat (NOSSF) with 7% free fatty acid (FFA) content was chosen for biodiesel production. The response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize the acid catalyzed esterification of NOSSF. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed methanol to NOSSF mole ratio as an important parameter for the acid esterification reaction. The p-value &lt; 0.05 and F-value = 401.18 showed that quadratic model is significant. NOSSB yield of about 92% was achieved, when the acid esterification was carried out with 0.5 wt% H2SO4, 18:1 methanol: NOSSF mole ratio at 65 °C for 4 h followed by alkali-catalyzed transesterification of NOSSE with 0.5 wt% NaOH, 6:1 methanol: NOSSE mole ratio at 65 °C for 2 h. The physicochemical properties of NOSSB-PBD blends were evaluated and were observed to be well within the limits of ASTM D765 standards. Among all the blends, the NOSSB20 blend, showed good performance in par with PBD fuel operation with respect to BTE, BP and BSFC at full load. NOSSB-PBD blends emitted less CO and HC but more CO2 and NOx emissions than PBD. 

Biodiesel production from Calophyllum inophyllum oil using zinc doped calcium oxide (Plaster of Paris) nanocatalyst
The present study was mainly focused on the production of biodiesel from Calophyllum inophyllum oil. The oil was characterized by GC–MS and stored for biodiesel production. The heterogeneous catalyst was synthesized for effective production of biodiesel. The synthesized catalyst was found to have good activity and stability. The surface and element characterization of zinc doped calcium oxide was characterized by SEM and EDAX. The size of nanocomposite was found to be in the range of 14.3–65.6 nm. The EDAX has confirmed the presence of zinc on the surface of the calcium oxide. The maximum biodiesel yield of 89.0% (v/v) was obtained at 55 °C in 80 min and catalyst concentration of 6% (w/v). The optimized methanol:oil molar ratio was obtained at 9:1 for the production of biodiesel. The produced methyl ester was confirmed by GC–MS analysis. 

In depth investigation of bi-functional, Cu/Zn/Γ-Al2O3 catalyst in biodiesel production from low-grade cooking oil: Optimization using response surface methodology
Environmental concerns in fossil fuel depletion intensified the search for alternate fuel from renewable resources. The focus of this study is to produce biodiesel from low-grade cooking oil by using Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3 as bi-functional heterogeneous base catalyzed transesterification reaction. The investigation of Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst on the calcination temperatures, dopant ratios to zinc oxide based and number of alumina coatings had significantly affected the catalytic performance. The physicochemical properties examined by XRD, XPS and TEM analyses over Cu/Zn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst indicates polycrystalline structure dominated by cubic Al2O3, hexagonal ZnO and monoclinic CuO species that presumably acted as active species which contributed to the catalytic transesterification of biodiesel. The design of experiments was performed using Box-Behnken design coupled with response surface methodology in order to optimize Cu/Zn (10:90)/γ-Al2O3 catalyst preparation conditions. The experimental value achieved 88.82% production of biodiesel that closely agreed with the predicted value from RSM. 

Use of activated carbons as catalyst supports for biodiesel production
The traditional method of biodiesel production is based on the transesterification of triglycerides using an alkaline catalyst dissolved in methanol. The aim of this study was to replace a homogeneous alkaline catalyst with a heterogeneous catalyst on the carbon support. The use of a carbon enables the catalyst to be reusable in the production process, eliminates the formation of soaps and increases the glycerol purity. Fatty acid methyl esters were obtained from the transesterification of corn oil using KOH supported on activated carbon (KOH/AC). The effect of the molar ratio of methanol to oil, reaction time and catalyst amount were used to optimize the transesterification reaction. The optimum condition for waste corn oil transesterification to methyl ester was obtained below 0.75 wt.% catalyst amount. The yield was up to 92 wt.% at 62.5 °C, 1 h reaction time and 3:1 methanol-to-oil ratio. This study demonstrated that the transesterification of the waste corn oil using methanol can be effectively catalyzed by the developed catalyst. 

Process intensification of biodiesel synthesis via ultrasound-assisted in situ esterification of Jatropha oil seeds
BACKGROUND: Non-edible oil such as Jatropha oil has high free fatty acids (FFAs) content. Therefore, acid esterification is a suitable route to reduce its FFA content to an acceptable limit (2 FFA%) before being subjected to further transesterification. In the present study, Jatropha seeds were utilized as the feedstock directly instead of Jatropha oil during ultrasound-assisted in situ esterification. The objective of this work is to evaluate the feasibility of in situ esterification of Jatropha oil seeds using sulphuric acid (H 2 SO 4 ) as catalyst with the aid of ultrasound. RESULTS: The reaction parameters (particle size, n-hexane to methanol volume ratio, H 2 SO 4 amount, reaction time and ultrasonic amplitude) were optimized and evaluated in term of extraction and esterification efficiencies as well as fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield. The highest extraction efficiency of 83.96%, esterification efficiency of 71.10% and FAME yield of 38.58% were achieved at particle size of 1–2 mm, n-hexane to methanol volume ratio of 3:1, 5 vol% of H 2 SO 4 and ultrasonic amplitude of 60% with reaction time of 150 min. CONCLUSION: Synthesis of biodiesel via ultrasound-assisted in situ esterification of Jatropha oil seeds was successful with considerable yield, which could provide improvement in terms of process intensification and more value added by-products. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

Au/NiO Composite: A Catalyst for One-Pot Cascade Conversion of Furfural
Furfural is a promising renewable platform chemical that is widely produced from lignocellulosic biomass and has received significant attention as a sustainable precursor for the production of chemicals and fuels. To date, one-pot conversion of furfural with cellulosic ethanol is mostly limited to the synthesis of C5-C7 hydrocarbons, poising a challenge for the production of high-energy density fuel from biomass-derived compounds. In this study, we present gold nanoparticles supported over nickel oxide (Au/NiO) as robust catalysts for selective conversion of furfural to hydrocarbons. The catalysts present ∼92% furfural conversion with ∼81% selectivity toward the production of C7 and C9 hydrocarbons through a one-pot cascade reaction, viz., cross-aldol condensations in the presence of ethanol, O2, and K2CO3, followed by a hydrogenolysis process using H2(g). Results indicate the unprecedented production of C9 from furfural and ethanol is yielded via in situ cross-aldol condensation of 3-(2-furyl)acrolein, an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde that is evolved in the reaction medium. Analysis shows the promising catalytic performance of the Au/NiO composite for the furfural conversion can attribute with synergic effects at the interface of the Au nanoparticles and the NiO, offering potential active sites for the reaction. This study may provide new guidelines for design of efficient catalysts to transform bio-based platform compounds into biofuels with high energy density. American Chemical Society.

Optimization of hydrothermal co-liquefaction of seaweeds with lignocellulosic biomass: Merging 2nd and 3rd generation feedstocks for enhanced bio-oil production
The present work aimed to explore the optimized conditions of hydrothermal co-liquefaction (co-HTL) of the green seaweed “Enteromorpha clathrata (EN)” and the lignocellulosic agricultural waste “rice husk (RH)”. Separate hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of EN and RH showed bio-oil yields of 26.0% and 45.6%, respectively. However, co-HTL under optimized conditions showed significant increase in the bio-oil yield by 71.7% over that of EN, and insignificant difference with that of RH. Nevertheless, the conversion ratio of co-HTL showed 10.6% significant increase over that of RH. GC-MS results showed that main compounds of EN and RH bio-oil lump into the C15–C20 and C5–C12 regions, mainly representing carbon range of diesel and gasoline, respectively. Short-chain (C5–C12) and long-chain (C14–C20) compounds in the bio-oil obtained by co-HTL represented 72% and 28%, respectively. In addition, the ratio of aromatic compounds in the bio-oil of RH was reduced by 9.3% as a result of co-HTL. In conclusion, results suggested 50% ethanol as a co-solvent, 300 °C and 45 min as optimum conditions for co-HTL of EN:RH (1:1 w/w). The present study demonstrated an efficient route for co-HTL of 3rd generation feedstocks with 2nd generation feedstocks which will have a significant impact on large-scale applications. 

Environmental friendly synthesis of TiO 2 -ZnO nanocomposite catalyst and silver nanomaterilas for the enhanced production of biodiesel from Ulva lactuca seaweed and potential antimicrobial properties against the microbial pathogens
TiO 2 -ZnO heterogeneous catalytic system provides a good replacement of a homogeneous catalytic reaction due to its easier recovery. In this study, biodiesel was produced from Ulva lactuca seaweeds using TiO 2 –ZnO nanocomposite catalysts with particle size of ~12 nm. The size controlled TiO 2 –ZnO nanocomposite was characterized by powder XRD analysis and TEM. The result of that TiO 2 –ZnO catalyst is a promising catalyst for the production of biodiesel under mild reaction conditions and high yield of hydroxydecanoic acid conversion of 82.8%. The various conditions optimized for the higher conversion to FAME (15.8 ml of FAME) were 4 wt% catalysts at 4 h under 60 °C and further there is no increase of conversion to FAME above 60 °C–80 °C. The total product yield was calculated as 82.8% of conversion to FAME. The evaluated biodiesel was found to be up to the mark of ASTM standards. The silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were synthesized by using leftover biomass of algae obtaining after lipid extraction of U.lactuca. AgNPs particle size was achieved as ~12 nm and was confirmed by UV–Visible spectroscopy, XRD and TEM analysis. Antibacterial activities of the synthesized AgNPs were analyzed and compared. The antibacterial activity was excellent against bacterial pathogens and treatment against P. vulgaris shows the maximum zone of inhibition (13.8 mm). The present work identified that the unutilized bioresource such as U.lactuca can be effectively utilized for biodiesel production so as to replace fossil fuel usage. Elsevier B.V.

Supercritical methanol for one put biodiesel production from chlorella vulgaris microalgae in the presence of CaO/TiO2 nano-photocatalyst and subcritical water
Supercritical methanol was used for one put biodiesel production from microalgae biomass. Fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) hydrocarbons, and oxygenates were produced in catalytic and non-catalytic procedures in the presence and absence of subcritical water. The CaO nanoparticles were synthetized using photochemical method on TiO2. Addition of catalyst and water to supercritical methanol could increase total product yield up to 51.6%, FAMEs yield up to 28.1%, hydrocarbons yield up to 2.5 times, and oxygenates yield up to 3.8 times. No CaO was detected in products and no color change occurred for product over time. The effects of catalysts and subcritical water on quality and quantity of products were described using reaction mechanisms. Accordingly, it can be proposed that water in subcritical condition dissolves cell wall of biomass and facilitates mass transfer of bio-oil to catalyst surface. In addition, it produces intermediates on catalyst surface that can accelerate FAMEs and oxygenates production.

Ni/phosphomolybdic acid immobilized on carbon nanotubes for catalytic cracking of Jatropha oil
A green and efficient solid acid catalyst was developed for direct conversion of Jatropha oil into biodiesel over Ni modified phosphomolybdic acid (HPMo)/carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in a fixed-bed reactor. Under optimal conditions (Temperature = 330 °C, Pressure = 3 MPa, H2/oil (v/v) = 800 N m3 m−3, Liquid hourly space velocity = 1 h−1), the yield of biodiesel (C15-C18 alkanes) was 86.7 wt%, and the conversion was 98.2%. The conversion was 86.1% during five runs of recycling. Comparing with the thermal cracking process, the catalytic cracking exhibited the same performance at a lower temperature. A possible reaction pathway to the reaction was suggested. Elsevier B.V.

Synergistic hydrothermal liquefaction of wheat stalk with homogeneous and heterogeneous catalyst at low temperature
The effect of Na2CO3, Fe and Na2CO3 + Fe during hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of wheat stalk with different temperature and reaction time was investigated in this study. The results indicated that Na2CO3 + Fe can promote the cracking of wheat stalk compared with Na2CO3 or Fe. Meanwhile, higher temperature favored the decomposition of wheat stalk and formation of heavy bio-oil. The highest heavy bio-oil yield was 24.25 wt% and the maximum liquefaction conversion rate was 89.45 wt% in system of Na2CO3 + Fe at 270 °C. The analysis results indicated that longer reaction time could promote liquefaction conversion especially for heavy bio-oil with Na2CO3 + Fe during the process of HTL. GC–MS, UPLC-MS and FT-IR analysis indicated that the major organic compounds in heavy bio-oil were aromatic compounds, alcohols, ketones, alkanes, and aldehydes, among of them aromatic compounds were the most prevalent. 

Synthesis and application of Co doped ZnO as heterogeneous nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from non-edible oil
Exploration of non-edible oil as a feedstock and the use of new heterogeneous nanocatalyst could contribute to bioenergy research. In this regard, the present work is focussed on the use of cobalt doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst for production of biodiesel from Mesua ferrea oil. The synthesized catalyst has been analyzed through X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX), and Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) techniques. Under optimal reaction condition, maximum biodiesel conversion of 98.03% was obtained in 3 h at 60 °C with 2.5 wt% catalyst loading and 1:9 oil to methanol molar ratio. The produced biodiesel has been characterized using Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (1H NMR), Carbon Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (13C NMR) and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (GC-MS) techniques. Fuel properties of the produced biodiesel have also been determined. The result showed good catalytic activity of cobalt doped Zinc oxide nanocatalyst and could be used for large scale biodiesel production from Mesua ferrea oil by further enhancing its stability. 

Euonymus maackii Rupr. Seed oil as a new potential non-edible feedstock for biodiesel
In this study, Euonymus maackii Seed oil (EMSO) was exploited and evaluated for the ﬁrst time as a new non-edible oil feedstock for preparation of biodiesel. The EMSO yield was 41.06 ± 2.68 wt%. The fatty acid compositions of EMSO involved palmitoleic acid (2.01%), palmitic acid (14.5%), stearic acid (3.1%), oleic acid (49.8%), linoleic acid (29.3%), 11-Eicosenoic acid (0.1%) and arachidic acid (0.07%). Microwave-assisted transesteriﬁcation with methanol provided a high conversion yield in short duration under low temperature. The 2.0 wt% of catalyst amount, 10:1 of methanol/oil molar ratio, 40 min of reaction time and 60 °C of temperature were found to be the optimum process conditions for the maximum biodiesel yield of 94.74 ± 2.09%. Using pseudo first-order kinetic model, the reaction rate constants were 2.145 × 102, 3.550 × 102 and 6.447 × 102 min−1 for 40, 50 and 60 °C, respectively. The thermodynamic property for biodiesel preparation was determined as activation energy = 47.67 kJ/mol. The fuel properties of the biodiesel product were evaluated and comparable to ASTM D-6751 and EN 14214 standards. Overall, this study revealed and confirmed the potential of Euonymus maackii seed oil as the appropriate alternative feedstock for biodiesel production. 

Role of copper- or cerium-promoters on NiMo/Γ-Al2O3 catalysts in hydrodeoxygenation of guaiacol and bio-oil
Effect of copper (Cu) or cerium (Ce) as promoters for nickel-molybdenum/γ-alumina (NiMo/γ-Al2O3) catalyst on the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of guaiacol (GUA), a model oxygenated compound found in a bio-oil derived from woody biomass, was comparatively investigated. The addition of Cu- or Ce-promoters affected the physicochemical properties of the NiMo catalyst. The NiMo catalyst promoted by Cu showed the higher reducibility, whilst the Ce-promoter (2–8 wt% based on γ-Al2O3 content) provided the NiMo catalyst with a higher distribution of active metals and induced a greater difficulty in the reduction under hydrogen (H2) atmosphere. For the HDO of GUA at a mild reaction condition (10 bar initial H2 pressure and 300 °C) in the absence of solvent, the Cu-promoter enhanced the hydrogenation activity of the NiMo catalyst to convert GUA to phenol and methylphenols, one-atomic oxygen species. Whereas, the addition of Ce obviously inhibited the formation of coke on the catalyst surface after a long reaction period (6 h) and gave a higher GUA conversion level with increasing yield of phenols. For the HDO of real bio-oil obtained from the fast pyrolysis of cassava rhizome, the NiMo catalysts promoted by Cu or Ce at 4 wt% based on the γ-Al2O3 content showed a higher performance at eliminating the oxygenated compounds in the bio-oil, reducing the oxygen/carbon (O/C) molar ratio by over seven-fold from 1.75 to 0.24–0.25. Moreover, the gross heating value of the bio-oil was improved from 21.5 to ca. 29.0 MJ/kg after the HDO process. However, the addition of the Cu or Ce promoter did not inhibit coke deposition, possibly due to the acidic properties of the bio-oil that deteriorated the catalyst performance by metal leaching. Elsevier B.V.

Is the fischer-tropsch conversion of biogas-derived syngas to liquid fuels feasible at atmospheric pressure?
Biogas resulting from anaerobic digestion can be utilized for the production of liquid fuels via reforming to syngas followed by the Fischer-Tropsch reaction. Renewable liquid fuels are highly desirable due to their potential for use in existing infrastructure, but current Fischer-Tropsch processes, which require operating pressures of 2 4 MPa (20 40 bar), are unsuitable for the relatively small scale of typical biogas production facilities in the EU, which are agriculture-based. This paper investigates the feasibility of producing liquid fuels from biogas-derived syngas at atmospheric pressure, with a focus on the system's response to various interruption factors, such as total loss of feed gas, variations to feed ratio, and technical problems in the furnace. Results of laboratory testing showed that the liquid fuel selectivity could reach 60% under the studied conditions of 488 K (215 °C), H2/CO = 2 and 0.1 MPa (1 bar) over a commercial Fischer Tropsch catalyst. Analysis indicated that the catalyst had two active sites for propagation, one site for the generation of methane and another for the production of liquid fuels and wax products. However, although the production of liquid fuels was verified at atmospheric pressure with high liquid fuel selectivity, the control of such a system to maintain activity is crucial. From an economic perspective, the system would require subsidies to achieve financial viability. by the authors.

Amphiphilic cellulose supported PdNi alloy nanoparticles towards biofuel upgrade under mild conditions
Design of stable high-performance heterogeneous catalysts has become crucial for efficient catalytic conversion of renewable biomass into high value-added chemicals. In this study, amphiphilic polymer support was synthesized by grafting hydrophobic groups onto hydrophilic cellulose nanocrystals and utilized as a support for PdNi alloy nanoparticles. The as-synthesized catalysts exhibited encouragingly high performance in the hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin under mild conditions.

Thermal performance and surface analysis of steel-supported platinum nanoparticles designed for bio-oil catalytic upconversion during radio frequency-based inductive heating
A catalyst is designed for use in radio frequency (RF) induction-based biofuel upconversion. Stainless steel spheres are functionalized with Pt-nanoparticles through the use of a silane linker. These spheres are characterized via XRD, FTIR, SEM/EDX and XPS followed by generation of heating profiles in an RF induction heater. The high electric conductivity of the steel balls results in rapid heating which creates a positive temperature gradient across the surface with temperatures of the steel balls reaching 300 °C in under 20 s. Using a minimum of 3% power (150 W), temperatures over 525 °C are achieved within 150 s in a single steel ball experiment. A steel bed experiment is performed to simulate an induction-based catalytic upconversion of biomass pyrolysis vapors which indicates that temperatures over 195 °C are achieved in as little as 300 s using 5% power (250 W). Melting and degradation of the Pt nanoparticles is evident with repeated heating at temperatures of 525 °C and above, fortunately, typical catalysts designed for upconversion of pyrolysis oils are operating well below these temperatures. This form of heating has a potential to mitigate the effects of coke deposition on catalyst surface, which is a pressing issue during up-conversion of pyrolysis oil and various petrochemical processes. 

Thermo-chemical conversion of scrap tire waste to produce gasoline fuel
Catalytic hydropyrolysis (CHP) of scrap tire was investigated for production of gasoline fuel. Effects of CHP process variables such as catalysts type ((activated carbon, AC), Ir/C, Rh/C, Pt/C, Ru/C, and Pd/C), temperature (200–450 °C), time (30–120 min), catalyst loading (0–40 wt%), and hydrogen pressure (0.1–12 MPa) on the CHP products distribution and properties of the hydropyrolysis oil (HPO) were examined. Ru/C was identified as the most suitable catalyst in terms of the HPO quality and the catalytic effect predominantly came from the noble metal. Temperature was the most influential factor affecting the yield and quality of the HPO and followed by the order of catalyst loading &gt; H 2 pressure &gt; time. Higher temperature, time, and catalyst loading would decrease the yield of HPO and increase the yield of gaseous product whereas contrary results were observed with increasing the H 2 pressure. With added noble metals, the hydrodenitrogenation, hydroSization, and hydrodeoxygenation reactions of the HPO were promoted and greatly lowered N, O, and S contents of the HPO with increasing the temperature, time, catalyst loading, and H 2 pressure. The lowest N, O, and S contents of 0.02, 0.41 and 0.41 wt% of HPO were achieved at 430 °C, 60 min, 10 wt% Ru/C, and 12 MPa H 2 . The higher-heating value of the HPOs varied between 44 and 46 MJ/kg depending on the reaction conditions. More than half of the energy of the ST was converted into the HPO. The HPO mainly consisted of saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons one to five benzene derivatives. The distillate fraction between 35 and 250 °C of the HPO is more than 80 wt%. Thus, we view that CHP is an alternative way to produce high quality hydro-carbon fuel from scrap tire. 

Selective hydrogenation of bio-based 5-hydroxymethyl furfural to 2,5-dimethylfuran over magnetically separable Fe-Pd/C bimetallic nanocatalyst
There is an ever increasing need to innovate and provide alternative energy sources to reduce the overdependence on conventional fossil fuels. 2, 5-Dimethylfuran (DMF), a bio-based chemical, has gained a lot of attention due to its potential application as a biofuel additive and is synthesized through hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). Bimetallic nano-catalysts have gained importance in recent years due to their excellent selectivity and activity. In this paper, a magnetically separable Fe-Pd/C bimetallic nano-catalyst was developed which not only showed excellent selectivity to DMF but also helped reduce the noble metal consumption, thereby making the catalyst cheaper. Using XPS, XRD and TPR characterizarion techniques, the Fe-Pd/C catalyst was found to exist as bimetallic containing a partially oxidized Fe and reduced Pd atoms. It exhibited 85% selectivity towards DMF with 100% conversion of HMF. The reaction was conducted in a liquid-acid-free environment, thus making the process environmental friendly. The oxidized Fe imparts magnetic properties to the catalyst making it easy to recover. The catalyst was found to be robust and showed excellent activity on repeated use. Overall a highly efficient, economic and green process for DMF synthesis was developed based on biomass as feedstock. Elsevier B.V.

Sono-dispersion of calcium over Al-MCM-41used as a nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from sunflower oil: Influence of ultrasound irradiation and calcium content on catalytic properties and performance
In this paper, the acidity of MCM-41 was improved by Al addition (Si/Al molar ratio of 50) and it was used as support in nanocatalysts with various loadings of calcium (10, 20 and 30 wt %) for biodiesel production. The catalysts were synthesized by two methods: impregnation and sono-dispersion. The synthesized samples were characterized by XRD, FESEM, EDX, TEM, BET and FTIR analysis. The XRD patterns of the samples demonstrated formation of the crystalline structure of MCM-41 and CaO. The FESEM images of the samples proved the nanoscale of catalysts and along with EDX and TEM analysis showed a better dispersion of calcium on support for ultrasonic irradiated sample compared to impregnated one. The performance of nanocatalysts was examined under constant conditions (Temperature of 70 °C, Methanol/Oil ratio of 12 and catalyst loading of 10 wt %). The result showed that the conversion of transesterification reaction and following that the quality of produced biodiesel was increased significantly by increasing the calcium amounts in catalysts. Furthermore, for two samples with the same amount of calcium loading, the sonicated sample showed a higher conversion. Among all of the samples Ca(30)/Al-MCM-41(U) showed the maximum conversion for biodiesel production reaction. 

Taguchi design approach for extraction of methyl ester from waste cooking oil using synthesized CaO as heterogeneous catalyst: Response surface methodology optimization
The ongoing requirements for fuel in meeting the ever-growing demand in commercial sector have pushed researchers in finding and optimizing the production of biofuels from cheap sources, enabling for a sustainable production. The present study aims at bridging the gap in optimizing the process parameters which are required for converting cheap waste cooking oil (WCO) into methyl esters, using cost effective source of heterogeneous catalyst (Egg shells). Characterization of synthesized calcium oxide (CaO) and the methyl esters were performed. Catalyst calcinations temperature (CTemp), catalyst calcinations time (CTime), catalyst loading (CL), alcohol to oil ratio (AO), reaction temperature (RTemp) and reaction time (RTime) were being analyzed in a 3-level-6-factor array using an L27 Taguchi orthogonal array (OA). Response surface methodology (RSM) optimization and analysis of variance (ANOVA) test are carried out for determining the most significant parameter. Amongst the entire variable, the transesterification reaction temperatures have a contribution of 30.14%, followed by calcinations temperature with 29.70%. A confirmation test is conducted using the optimal values from both RSM and ANOVA and a yield of 96.6 ± 0.05% and 96.3 ± 0.10% respectively is obtained which is more than the predicted value of 96.08% and at par with studies of researchers work. Thus, at same OA design, RSM and ANOVA can be equally applied for optimization. 

Role of glycine/nitrates ratio on structural and texture evolution of MgO-based nanocatalyst fabricated by hybrid microwave-impregnation method for biofuel production
The synthesis of MgO/MgAl2O4 was conducted using hybrid microwave-impregnation with different glycine fuel ratios (1, 1.5, 2 and 2.5). To this end, the combustion synthesis (CS) and microwave heating were applied for the synthesis of MgAl2O4, and impregnation was used for the dispersion of MgO active phase on the given samples. The characterization of samples was done using TGA, XRD, BET, BJH, FTIR, FESEM, and EDX to reach the optimal glycine fuel ratio for CS. The best physiochemical properties were observed in 1.5 ratio. The pore size, the surface area, and the mean pore diameter of the mentioned nanocatalyst were respectively 0.358 cm3/g, 93.8 m2/g, and 5 nm. Finally, transesterification reaction was employed for the preparation of biodiesel to measure the nanocatalysts activity. The findings showed that the nanocatalyst produced by hybrid microwave-impregnation method with fuel ration of 1.5 (at the presence of glycine) is highly desirable for biodiesel production. Using optimal sample, transesterification reaction conversion reached 92.7%. Reusability investigation of the optimal catalyst showed that this sample possessed a relatively good reusability for biodiesel production. Regarding the simple and fast synthesis method (hybrid microwave impregnation), it can be said that the catalyst synthesized by this method is suitable for industrial biodiesel preparation. 

Enhanced activity for electrochemical hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis of furfural to biofuel using electrodeposited Cu catalysts
Furfural (FF) is a biomass-derived oxygenate and a platform chemical that can produce a biofuel candidate, 2-methyl furan (MF), and valuable chemicals by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Electrochemical hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis (ECH) is a promising method for upgrading of FF to produce MF and valuable chemicals such as furfuryl alcohol (FA). The production rate, selectivity and faradaic efficiency (FE) of products on microcrystalline and nanocrystalline Cu electrodes were compared with a bare Cu electrode at different potentials. At near onset potentials of ECH of FF, the production rate of FA + MF on nanocrystalline Cu was 2.4 times that of bare Cu, with a negligible amount of side product, hydrogen gas. As the magnitude of applied potential increased to much beyond the onset potential, the production rate for FA + MF more than doubled on the nanocrystalline Cu catalyst compared to bare Cu, when a significant quantity of FF was present. The nanocrystalline Cu catalyst also maintained stable and repeatable FE and production rate for desired products during repeated cycles of ECH of FF. Elsevier B.V.

Leaching and reusing analysis of calcium–zinc mixed oxides as heterogeneous catalysts in the biodiesel production from refined palm oil
The scarcity of fossil oils in medium and long term has led to propose different alternatives to replace it, and this is the reason why biodiesel has been proposed as a suitable replacement of conventional diesel oil. One of the most widely inquired heterogeneous catalysts in biodiesel production is calcium oxide (CaO) due to some advantages such as low price and high activity. Unfortunately, this compound is leached by methanol, and in this case, compounds such as CaO and ZnO have been suggested as an alternative to avoid this unwanted phenomenon. According to this, in the current work mixed oxides of calcium–zinc catalysts were synthesized using the co-precipitation method, and later, they were characterized and their behaviors were studied identifying transesterification yields and catalysts life cycle varying some of its operational conditions. Methanol/oil ratio over catalyst amount and Zn/Ca atomic ratio were identified as the main factors that affect the transesterification reaction yield. The maximum yield was 86.99%, obtained with 7.5 wt% catalyst, Zn/Ca atomic ratio of 3.0, methanol/oil molar ratio of 30:1 and a reaction time of 2 h at 56.9 °C. To test its reactivation capacity, a reactivated catalyst with the best behavior was used again obtaining a yield of 83.87% which indicates an insignificant decrease in its catalytic activity. However, the leaching process was detected which does not allow a decrease in purification costs due to residual calcium oxide., Islamic Azad University (IAU).

Experimental studies on engine performance and emission characteristics using castor biodiesel as fuel in CI engine
The petroleum fuels need a constraining research for another energy source as the diminish of diesel fuels and causes of health problems. This paper studies the castor biodiesel as another source of fuel for already having CI engines with the application of new biodiesel which having new fuel properties. The study explains the utilization of castor biodiesel as another fuel for the diesel, and it may considerably weaken the exhalation of greenhouse gases as well as strengthen the castor seed production which gives employment to farmers on the city or town sides. The study reveals that the usability of castor biodiesel as another source of fuel reduces carbon monoxide to 9% correlated to diesel HC reduced by 8.8% also a considerable reduction in oxides of nitrogen. Here there was increased in SFC by 4% and the thermal efficiency reduced by 2.2%. But the environmental issues and the employment for farmers and increase their production of castor plant prefers the castor biodiesel is another source of fuel for the automobiles, cultivation and power production sectors. 

Catalytic activity of CaO-based catalyst in transesterification of microalgae oil with methanol
In this work, activities of modified dolomite catalysts using calcium acetate in the heterogeneously catalyzed transesterification of microalgae oil with methanol were investigated. Modified catalysts were prepared via wet impregnation method and calcined 850°C for 2 h. Reaction conditions were examined as the catalyst type, amount of catalyst, methanol/microalgae oil molar ratio, and reusability of the catalyst using the dolomite and modified dolomite catalysts. When investigated reusability of the modified dolomite catalyst in the transesterification of microalgae oil with methanol, catalyst was reused three times with a small loss of activity. After fourth run, reused catalyst was calcined again and got similar activity to the first run. The highest fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) yield of 90% was obtained when the reaction was performed with methanol/microalgae oil molar ratio of 6:1, catalyst amount of 3%, and reaction temperature at 65°C for 3 h by using the 30% CaO/dolomite catalyst. The Author(s) 2018.

Towards Improved Biorefinery Technologies: 5-Methylfurfural as a Versatile C 6 Platform for Biofuels Development
Low chemical stability and high oxygen content limit utilization of the bio-based platform chemical 5-(hydroxymethyl)furfural (HMF) in biofuels development. In this work, Lewis-acid-catalyzed conversion of renewable 6-deoxy sugars leading to formation of more stable 5-methylfurfural (MF) is carried out with high selectivity. Besides its higher stability, MF is a deoxygenated analogue of HMF with increased C/O ratio. A highly selective synthesis of the innovative liquid biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran starting from MF under mild conditions is described. The superior synthetic utility of MF against HMF in benzoin and aldol condensation reactions leading to long-chain alkane precursors is demonstrated. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Blending Real World Gasoline with Biofuel in a Direct Conversion Process
A method to produce the biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) from cellulose-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) by hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) using commercial gasoline as solvent to obtain mixtures of gasoline with DMF, appropriate for direct use in present internal combustion engines, is presented. Best results were obtained with gasoline:ethanol mixtures in the ratio 9:1 (E10), as ethanol acts as a solvent mediator for the dissolution of HMF. Selected potential biofuels are also found to give high DMF yields, for example, several alcohols (81-92%) and 2-butanone (94%), while γ-valerolacton and saturated hydrocarbons show limitations (75% and 37%, respectively). The reaction in gasoline is conducted sequentially up to three times with an initial loading of 10 wt % HMF per step, resulting in a concentration increase of up to 7 wt % DMF for each step, by which a concentration range between 7 and 20 wt % DMF in the final blend is covered. The obtained blends were evaluated by the determination of the derived cetane number (DCN) and a simulated distillation with comparison to premixed blends and proved to be comparable in a wide concentration range of DMF (5-15 wt %). Thus, a potentially directly usable fuel blend is produced in a direct conversion process without the need of costly separation. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Pd-Ni bimetallic nanoparticles supported on active carbon as an efficient catalyst for hydrodeoxygenation of aldehydes
A highly efficient bimetallic nanoparticles (BMNPs) catalyst was reported, Pd1Ni4/AC, consisting of Pd1Ni4 BMNPs supported on active carbon, shown excellent catalytic performance and stablity in hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of vanillin. HDO of vanillin and various aldehydes with high efficiency and selectivity could be achieved at low H2 pressure (2 bar) under mild conditions in the presence of the BMNPs catalyst, no obvious decrease on catalytic performance was observed after eight cycles. The superior catalytic performance of the Pd1Ni4/AC catalyst was mainly attributable to the synergetic electronic effect between Pd and Ni, which showcased the great potential of BMNPs in the catalysis field.

Fabrication of magnetite nanoparticles (Fe 3 O 4 -NPs) for catalytic pyrolysis of nutshells biomass
The fabrication of nanoparticles has been perused as a topic of critical importance in the present decades. Biosynthesis of nanoparticles employs plants extract instead of harmful chemicals. These plant extracts act as reducing and capping agents which is the most appropriate and eco-friendly method among all the preparative routs. In present study, the magnetite nanoparticles (Fe 3 O 4 -NPs) were fabricated using rapid, single step and benign biosynthetic rout by reduction of ferric nitrate nonahydrate solution with Ferocactus echidne aqueous extract containing ascorbic acid as a main reducing and capping agent. The structural and morphological properties of prepared iron oxide nanoparticles were investigated by Powder X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy. The size of the synthesized nanoparticles was approximately 15 ± 2 nm as determined by Scherrer equation. The biosynthetically fabricated nanoparticles were employed as catalyst for pyrolysis of nutshells to produce biofuel. Catalytic pyrolysis of biomass yields biofuel as an alternative source of energy and chemical feed stock. Effect of temperature, heating rate, and amount of catalyst were investigated on conversion percentage and product yields. Aniline point, carbon residue, and cetane number of prepared bio-oil were also determined., Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Urban, Agricultural and Livestock Residues in the Context of Biorefineries [Resíduos urbanos, agrícolas e pecuários no contexto das biorrefinarias] [Residuos urbanos, agrícolas y pecuarios en el contexto de las biorrefinerías]
The generation of waste is increasing globally and its poor utilization causes serious environmental, economic and social issues. The aim of this work was to analyze the state of the art on urban, agricultural and livestock solid waste in terms of quantity and composition, as well as to analyze the concept of biorefineries from the viewpoint of their design as a sustainable alternative for the use of residual raw materials. The information was consulted in different databases such as Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar. The analysis of the information identified that the residues are produced in considerable amounts and have valuable organic compounds, which are used to a greater or lesser extent according to technological, cultural, and socio-economic factors in each specific region. New policies are needed for the integral management of solid waste that integrates the concept of biorefineries from the generation and separation at the source to its utilization and final disposal. The proper implementation of physical, thermochemical, chemical, and biological processes under the concept of biorefineries can recover or transform in an integral way the residual raw materials to obtain products such as biofuels, food, and energy. Designing biorefineries to determine their viability for waste utilization is required. Exploring this type of alternatives by evaluating different factors (techno-economic, environmental, and social) may support the decision making of investment and research in utilization technologies to be implemented on a small or large scale in regions of Colombia and the world with great waste availability. Revista Facultad de Ingenieria.All Rights Reserved

Development of bio ethanol dry reforming catalyst for reductant supply of DeNOx system
A study was carried out on CO2 reforming catalysts using ethanol based on biofuels for the production of syngas(CO, H2), a reducing agent for NOx reduction. Ni catalyst in various supports, such as γ-AI2O3, MgO-Al2O3, SiO2, CeO2, ZrO2, showed great synthetic gas production capability, and through evaluation, resistance to performance and carbon impaction was compared. The performance assessments of the catalyst were carried out by lowering the temperature to a 50 °C range from 850 °C to 700 °C. The reaction products were analyzed via IR. The characterization of the catalysts were performed through BET, XRD, and TPR, and TG analysis was performed to check the amount of deposited coke in catalysts after the reaction. In this study, Ni/MgO-Al2O3 showed an enhanced performance on carbon deposition. Copyright KSAE.

Three-dimensional bioelectrodes utilizing graphene based bioink
Enzyme immobilization using nanomaterials offers new approaches to enhanced bioelectrochemical performance and is essential for the preparation of bioelectrodes with high reproducibility and low cost. In this report, we describe the development of new three-dimensional (3D) bioelectrodes by immobilizing a “bioink” of glucose oxidase (GOD) in a matrix of reduced graphene oxides (RGOs), polyethylenimine (PEI), and ferrocene carboxylic acid (FcCOOH) on carbon paper (CP). CP with 3D interwoven carbon fibers serves as a solid porous and electronically conducting skeleton, providing large surface areas and space for loading the bioink and diffusion of substrate molecules, respectively. RGO enhances contact between the GOD-matrix and CP, maintaining high conductivity. The composition of the bioink has been systematically optimized. The GOD bioelectrodes show linearly increasing electrocatalytic oxidation current toward glucose concentration up to 48 mM. A hybrid enzymatic biofuel cell equipped with the GOD bioelectrode as a bioanode and a platinum cathode furthermore registers a maximum power density of 5.1 μW cm−2 and an open circuit voltage of 0.40 V at 25°C. The new method reported of preparing a bioelectrode by drop-casting the bioink onto the substrate electrode is facile and versatile, with the potential of application also for other enzymatic bioelectrodes. The Electrochemical Society.

Catalytic Reforming: A Potentially Promising Method for Treating and Utilizing Wastewater from Biogas Plants
This study investigated catalytic reforming, which is a thermochemical process, as a pioneering method to treat biogas slurry (wastewater from biogas plants) and generate hydrogen. Experimental validation for treating biogas slurries from digested cattle manure, fish intestine, and wheat straw was performed on Ni/α-Al2O3 catalyst. The results showed that the total organic carbon, total nitrogen, and PO4 3- ion contents in biogas slurry could be reduced by 98.69, 98.01, and 99.32%, respectively. The highest hydrogen yield was obtained in the treatment of biogas slurry from digested cattle manure at 750 °C, in which the hydrogen yield and hydrogen concentration were 13.85 Lhydrogen/LBS and 79.77 vol %, respectively. Changes in the crystalline phase and structure of the catalyst were observed during catalytic reforming of biogas slurry. Active metal oxidization and carbon deposition were likely to be important factors affecting catalytic stability. The mass flow evaluation verified the hydrogen generation potential by the catalytic reforming of biogas slurry, which was close to the methane generation capability of the upstream biogas plant. However, additional effort is required to address the high energy consumption of this method. These findings provide fundamental knowledge about the potential of applying thermochemical techniques to treat and utilize high total organic carbon-containing wastewaters. American Chemical Society.

Upgrading of furfural to biofuel precursors: Via aldol condensation with acetone over magnesium hydroxide fluorides MgF2- x(OH)x
Wastes from lignocellulosic materials, especially hemicellulose, are extremely promising resources to produce fuels from renewable raw materials. Furfural, resulting from the depolymerization of hemicellulose, is often considered as an extremely interesting platform molecule. Particularly, new biofuels containing molecules with 8 and 13 carbon atoms can be produced from aldol condensation of furfural and acetone followed by a deoxygenation reaction. In this work, several magnesium hydroxide fluorides MgF2-x(OH)x were prepared by a sol-gel method with various F/Mg ratios (0 to 2) at 100 °C. All solid samples were fully characterized by several techniques (nitrogen adsorption-desorption, TEM, IR, XRD and ICP). MgF2-x(OH)x were mainly composed of an intimate mixture of MgF2 and Mg(OH)2-x(OCH3)x and exhibited both acid-base properties and high surface areas. From CO2 adsorption experiments, a basicity scale corresponding to basic sites with moderate strength was established: MgF1.5(OH)0.5 &gt; MgF(OH) ∼ MgF1.75(OH)0.25 &gt; MgF0.5(OH)1.5 &gt; Mg(OH)2 ≫ MgF2. It was proposed that the presence of fluorine allowed stabilization of the basic sites with moderate strength at ambient atmosphere. The aldol condensation of furfural and acetone was carried out under mild reaction conditions (50 °C, Patm) over MgF2-x(OH)x. These catalysts were involved in this reaction without using a classical activation step for basic solid catalysts, which constitutes a major advantage of energy conservation and thus, economic efficiency. The solid with a F/Mg ratio equal to 1.5 (MgF1.5(OH)0.5) exhibited the highest activity, the furanic dimer (1,5-di(furan-2-yl)penta-1,4-dien-3-one) being the main product. A good correlation between the catalytic activity and the basicity scale was highlighted. Based on these results, the nature of active sites was proposed: a combination of a Lewis acid site (coordinatively unsaturated metal site) in the vicinity of a basic site (hydroxyl groups of Mg(OH)2-x(OCH3)x). The effect of the furfural/acetone ratio on the catalytic properties of MgF1.5(OH)0.5 was also investigated. This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Cascade aldol condensation of an aldehyde via the aerobic oxidation of ethanol over an Au/NiO composite
Synthesis of liquid biofuels (C11-C13) from cellulosic ethanol is regarded as a promising and versatile protocol. In this study, oxide-supported nanogold catalysts exhibit good catalytic performance in ethanol conversion with cinnamaldehyde and finally give rise to the C11-C13 hydrocarbon. High selectivity (70%) for C11-C13 hydrocarbons is achieved over Au/NiO via a one-pot cascade reaction, viz. cross-aldol condensations in the presence of oxygen and base (K2CO3) and then full hydrodeoxygenation with hydrogen gas. EtOH-TPD and TGA analyses show that the ethanol is activated to acetaldehyde (CH3CHO∗) over the surface oxygen vacancies of the NiO support. The CH3CHO∗ then reacts with cinnamaldehyde at the interfacial perimeter of the Au/NiO composite during the cascade reactions, as evidenced by comparison of the catalytic performance with that over another oxide-supported Au NP, chemo-adsorption investigations, and in situ infrared spectroscopy investigations. This work may provide new guidelines for designing efficient catalysts to convert bioethanol into biofuels with high energy density. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Scale-up biopolymer-chelated fabrication of cobalt nanoparticles encapsulated in N-enriched graphene shells for biofuel upgrade with formic acid
Exploring both high-performance catalytic materials from non-edible lignocellulosic biomass and selective hydrodeoxygenation of bioderived molecules will enable value-added utilization of renewable feedstocks to replace rapidly diminishing fossil resources. Herein, we developed a scale-up and sustainable method to fabricate gram-quantities of highly dispersed cobalt nanocatalysts sheathed in multilayered N-doped graphene (Co@NG) by using a biomacromolecule carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) as a raw material. The ionic gelation of CMC, urea and Co2+ ions leads to uniform dispersion and chelation of different species, consequently resulting in the formation of highly distributed Co nanoparticles (NPs) (10.91 nm) with N-enriched graphene shells in the solid-state thermolysis process. The usage of urea as a non-corrosive activation agent can introduce a porous belt-like nanostructure and abundant doped nitrogen. Among all the prepared catalysts in this work, the optimized Co@NG-6 with the largest specific surface area (627 m2 g-1), the most and strongest basic sites, and the highest proportion of pyridinic-N (37.6%) and mesopores exhibited excellent catalytic activity (99% yield of 2-methoxy-p-cresol) for base-free transfer hydrodeoxygenation (THD) of vanillin using bioderived formic acid (FA) as a H source at 160 °C for 6 h. The poisoning tests and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra verified that the strong interaction between N atoms and encapsulated Co NPs provided synergistic effects, which were essential for the outstanding catalytic performance of Co@NG-6. The deuterium kinetic isotope effect study clearly demonstrated that the formation of Co-H-via β-hydride elimination and protonation was the rate-determining step, and protic N-H+ and hydridic Co-H- were considered to be active intermediate species in the THD reaction. Furthermore, Co@NG-6 was highly stable for recycling owing to the graphene shells preventing Co NPs from corrosion and aggregation. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2019.

Bentonites modified with phosphomolybdic heteropolyacid (HPMo) for biowaste to biofuel production
Two bentonites from Paraíba (Northeastern Brazil) were impregnated with heteropoly phosphomolybdic H3PMo12O40 (HPMo). The materials produced were characterized by various techniques such as N2 adsorption-desorption (specific surface area, SSA), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA/DTG), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) equipped with Dispersive Energy X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy (UV-vis), acid-base titration analysis. The catalytic activity of these materials was tested in the esterification of a waste from palm oil deodorization and the main results obtained (about 93.3% of conversion) indicated that these materials have potential to act as heterogeneous solid acid catalysts. The prepared materials exhibited satisfactory catalytic performance even after a very simple recycling process in three reuse cycles, without significant loss of their activities. by the authors.

Comparative study of liquid biodiesel from Sterculia foetida (bottle tree) using CuO-CeO2 and Fe2O3 nano catalysts
This study examined the potential of nanocatalyst CuO-CeO2 and Fe2O3for efficient conversion of Sterculia foetida seed Oil into biodiesel. S. foetida contains 40% oil content and low free fatty acid value (0.18 mg KOH/g). The synthesized nanocatalyst was characterized using X-Ray Diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) techniques. The maximum conversion was achieved (92% yield) using CuO-CeO2 at 0.25% catalyst loading. The optimized reaction was carried out by experimental variables included molar ratio (1:9), temperature (70°C), reaction time (3 h) and stirring rate (600 rpm) using reflux transesterification method. The XRD results showed the size of crystals with order 54.4 nm for CuO-CeO2 and 31.3 nm for Fe2O3. The SEM images of CuO-CeO2 showed spherical structure having an average particle size of 32.3 nm. SEM images of Fe2O3showed the size ranges from 46.27 to 28.76 nm having regular morphology, including spherical shape. The FT-IR analysis of this nanocatalyst also reinforced the results of this study. Gas Chromatography Mass Spectroscopy (GC-MS) and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) confirmed the efficient conversion of S. foetida seed oil into biodiesel using prepared nanocatalysts. The prepared nanocatalysts are cheaper, readily available and can be used for industrial scale biofuel production assembly, making it economically feasible and more cost effective. Akhtar, Ahmad, Shaheen, Zafar, Ullah, Asma, Sultana, Munir, Rashid, Malik, Saeed and Waseem.

The Unanticipated Catalytic Activity of Lithium tert -Butoxide/THF in the Interesterification of Rapeseed Oil with Methyl Acetate
Conventionally, the biodiesel (mixture of fatty acid methyl esters, FAME) production proceeds by transesterification of triglycerides with methanol accordingly by the formation of glycerol as a by-product, which cannot be included in biofuel composition. Biodiesel could also be produced via interesterification ensuring full conversion of oil to biofuel, consisting of FAME and triacetin. The most effective catalysts for interesterification reactions are alkali metal alkoxides. The effectivity of alkoxide catalyst depends on its solubility determined by the structure of the alkyl chain. In our previous studies, we have shown that the branched chain catalyst tert-BuOK/THF is highly suitable for the realisation of interesterification reactions. Till now, in the scientific literature, very little is known about the influence of metal ions. In order to investigate the influence of counterion on the activity of alkoxide catalysts, in this work, we have investigated the proceeding of interesterification reactions of rapeseed oil with methyl acetate in the presence of lithium, sodium, and potassium tert-butoxides in THF. Experimentally obtained relationships for catalyst-to-oil molar ratio (COMR) influence rapeseed oil interesterifications with methyl acetate at 55°C for 1 h, with methyl acetate-to-oil molar ratio (MAOMR) 18 showing that the tert-BuONa/THF and tert-BuOK/THF have high and similar activity, but the tert-BuOLi/THF is fundamentally different. The low and diverse activity of lithium tert-butoxide can be explained by the association of ions and very low catalytic activity of ion pairs. Simulation of the influence of association on the FAME formation shows that at COMR 0.1 (sufficient for fast reaction proceeding in the presence of tert-BuONa/THF and tert-BuOK/THF), the concentration of tert-butoxide ions in the presence of tert-BuOLi/THF because of associations lowers from 28 mmol/L to 13 mmol/L, whcih is not sufficient for effective proceeding of reaction. Activity of alkoxides in this reaction is solely determined by the counterion. Valdis Kampars et al.

Highly-efficient and magnetically-separable ZnO/Co@N-CNTs catalyst for hydrodeoxygenation of lignin and its derived species under mild conditions
A catalyst comprising highly-efficient and magnetically-separable bimetallic ZnO and Co nanoparticles (NPs) deposited on N-doped carbon nanotubes (ZnO/Co@N-CNTs) was synthesized by the direct calcination of the bimetallic Zn/Co zeolitic imidazolate framework (Zn/Co-ZIF) for the effective hydrogenation (HD) and hydrodeoxygenation (HD) of lignin and its derived species. During the calcination of Zn/Co-ZIF, Zn was dislocated from the framework to the particle surface to form amorphous ZnO NPs and metallic Co NPs, which activated the growth of the N-CNTs. Because of the highly Lewis acidic amorphous ZnO, high HD/HDO ability of metallic Co NPs, and high wettability of the N-CNT, an almost complete conversion of vanillin into its corresponding deoxygenated species, creosol, was achieved in an aqueous medium without the production of byproducts under mild reaction conditions (150 °C, 0.7 MPa H2, a reaction time of 2 h). When kraft lignin and bio-oil derived from concentrated strong acid hydrolysis lignin were converted over ZnO/Co@N-CNTs, high degrees of deoxygenation of 74.2% and 34.4%, respectively, could be achieved at 350 °C, 5.0 MPa H2, and a reaction time of 6 h in water. A detailed chemical composition analysis of the deoxygenated bio-oil revealed that cyclohexanone and its alkyl group-substituted derivatives were the major species. To gain insight into the HD/HDO mechanisms, various types of lignin-derived monomers (syringaldehyde, acetovanillone, acetosyringone, 2-phenoxy-1-phenylethanol, cinnamaldehyde, isoeugenol) and holocellulose-derived monomers (furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural), different types of catalysts, and various reaction parameters were tested. The mild reaction conditions, use of a non-noble metal catalyst, and use of water as the solvent make it possible to develop a cost-effective, easy to scale up, and environmental-benign process for biofuel and biochemical production. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Deoxygenation of stearic acid over cobalt-based nax zeolite catalysts
For the production of sustainable biofuels from lipid biomass it is essential to develop non-noble metal catalysts with high conversion and selectivity under inert gas atmospheres. Herein, we report a novel cobalt-based catalyst supported on zeolite NaX via ion-exchange synthesis. The resultant bifunctional cobalt-based NaX zeolite catalyst displayed high conversion of stearic acid to liquid fuels. In addition, the effect of reaction temperature and catalyst loading was studied to evaluate the order of reaction and activation energy. Decarboxylation and decarbonylation were the dominant deoxygenation pathways. Stearic acid was successfully deoxygenated in N2 atmospheres using Co/NaX catalysts with a conversion as high as 83.7% and a yield to heptadecane up to ~28%. Furthermore, we demonstrate that higher reaction temperatures resulted in competing pathways of decarboxylation and decarbonylation. Finally, the fresh and recycled catalysts were characterized showing modest recyclability with a ~12.5% loss in catalytic activity. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Production of green biofuel by using a goat manure supported Ni-Al hydrotalcite catalysed deoxygenation process
The high oxygen content in natural biomass resources, such as vegetable oil or biomass-pyrolysed bio oil, is the main constraint in their implementation as a full-scale biofuel for the automotive industry. In the present study, renewable fuel with petrodiesel-like properties was produced via catalytic deoxygenation of oleic acid in the absence of hydrogen (H 2 ). The deoxygenation pathway of oleic acid to bio-hydrocarbon involves decarboxylation/decarbonylation of the oxygen content from the fatty acid structure in the form of carbon dioxide (CO 2 )/carbon monoxide (CO), with the presence of a goat manure supported Ni-Al hydrotalcite (Gm/Ni-Al) catalyst. Goat manure is an abundant bio-waste, containing a high mineral content, urea as well as cellulosic fiber of plants, which is potentially converted into activated carbon. Synthesis of Gm/Ni-Al was carried out by incorporation of pre-activated goat manure (GmA) during co-precipitation of Ni-Al catalyst with 1 : 3, 1 : 1 and 3 : 1 ratios. The physico-chemical properties of the catalysts were characterized by X-ray diffractometry (XRD), Brunauer-Emmet-Teller (BET) surface area, field emission surface electron microscopy (FESEM) and temperature program desorption ammonia (TPD-NH 3 ) analysers. The catalytic deoxygenation reaction was performed in a batch reactor and the product obtained was characterized by using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GCMS) for compound composition identification as well as gas chromatography-flame ionisation detector (GC-FID) for yield and selectivity determination. The optimization and evaluation were executed using response surface methodology (RSM) in conjunction with central composite design (CCD) with 5-level-3-factors. From the RSM reaction model, it was found that the Gm/Ni-Al 1 : 1 catalysed deoxygenation reaction gives the optimum product yield of 97.9% of hydrocarbon in the range of C 8 -C 20 , with diesel selectivity (C 17 : heptadecane and heptadecene compounds) of 63.7% at the optimal reaction conditions of: (1) reaction temperature: 327.14 °C, (2) reaction time: 1 h, and (3) catalyst amount: 5 wt%. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Sustainable production of ethylene from bioethanol over hierarchical ZSM-5 nanosheets
Hierarchical aluminosilicate nanosheets composed of an MFI structure with various Si/Al ratios have been successfully prepared via a one-pot hydrothermal process with the aid of tetrabutylphosphonium hydroxide (TBPOH) as the bifunctional structure-directing agent (SDA). The MFI zeolite nanosheets exhibit outstanding properties, such as an extremely high external surface area and appropriate acidic properties. To illustrate the beneficial effect of the hierarchical structure of the zeolite nanosheets towards green and sustainable catalytic conversion of renewable resources to high value-added chemicals, direct bioethanol dehydration to ethylene over Brønsted-acid MFI nanosheets has been studied from both experimental and theoretical points of view. Interestingly, the hierarchical structure strongly effects an increase in surface acid density at the external surfaces, eventually resulting in an improvement in ethylene selectivity. The results obtained from density functional theory (DFT) calculations also reveal that ethylene is possibly produced over the Brønsted acid sites located at the external surfaces, whereas diethyl ether (DEE) formation is the predominant pathway over the internal acid sites of MFI. From these findings, hierarchical ZSM-5 nanosheets consisting of a high fraction of active sites at the external silanol surfaces can significantly enhance the selectivity of ethylene from ethanol/bioethanol dehydration. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

A one-pot and modular self-assembly strategy for high-performance organized enzyme cascade bioplatforms based on dual-functionalized protein-PtNP@mesoporous iron oxide hybrid
Inspired by the delicate structure and prominent efficiency of natural multiple-enzyme systems, combining nanotechnologies such as nanomaterials, self-assemblies, and enzyme mimics is fascinating for the development of next-generation high-performance organized enzyme cascade bioplatforms. In our facile and convenient design, a dual-functionalized β-casein-Pt nanoparticles@mesoporous-Fe 3 O 4 (CM-PtNP@m-Fe 3 O 4 ) hybrid acts as both a nanozyme with outstanding peroxidase-like activity and a scaffold to immobilize and stabilize a natural oxidase, resulting in a high-performance organized enzyme cascade bioplatform for a one-pot assembly procedure. Owing to special physicochemical surface properties, the multipoint attachment of various interactions between natural enzymes and protein/inorganic hybrids leads to efficient immobilization of the enzyme with retained activity. The proposed cascade bioplatform provides superior cholesterol sensing, including simplicity (one-step detection), reusable enzymes (peroxidase mimic and oxidase), and excellent sensitivity (detection limit, 0.05 μM). To our knowledge, the bioplatform presented in this work shows the highest sensitivity for cholesterol detection among all reported colorimetric methods based on nanozymes. Therefore, the highly rationally designed protein/inorganic hybrid and dual-functional strategy used in this study will provide a facile one-pot and effective high-performance organized enzyme cascade bioplatform with potential applications in biosensing, biotransformation, decontamination, and biofuel. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Bioethanol production from palm wood using Trichoderma reesei and Kluveromyces marxianus
In the present work, palm wood was pretreated using hydrothermal technique in conjunction with chemical method for removal of lignin. Pretreated palm wood was subjected to hydrolysis using Trichoderma reesei MTCC 4876. Subsequently bioethanol was produced using palm wood hydrolysate by Kluveromyces marxianus MTCC 1389. RSM was used to identify the non-linear relationship and optimize various process parameters such as parameters such as pH, temperature, agitation rate, substrate concentration and inoculum size for bioethanol production. ANN constructed with 5-2-1 topology was also used to optimize process parameters. The experimental bioethanol yield of 22.90 g/l was obtained at ANN optimum conditions of temperature 45 °C, agitation rate 156 rpm, pH 5, substrate concentration 8% (v/v) and inoculum size 3.2% (v/v). 

Overview of catalytic upgrading of biomass pyrolysis vapors toward the production of fuels and high-value chemicals
The application of heterogeneous catalysis in biomass pyrolysis is considered as one of the most promising methods to improve bio-oil quality by minimizing its undesirable properties (high viscosity, corrosivity, instability, etc.) and producing renewable fuels and high-value chemicals. Catalytic fast pyrolysis (CFP) of biomass refers both to the “in situ” and “ex situ or two-stage” upgrading. A plethora of catalytic materials have been investigated in the literature for both approaches, including conventional microporous zeolites, ordered mesoporous aluminosilicates, promoted or not with several transition metals, as well as various metal (nano)oxide catalysts with Lewis acidity. Recently, hybrid micro/mesoporous and basic materials have been also suggested exhibiting most promising results due to combined micro/mesoporosity and adequate balance of acid and basic sites. Optimum catalysts are required to retain deoxygenation, enhance yields of aromatics, and other valuable compounds (such as phenolics), while limiting coke formation. Coke formation is one of the reasons of catalyst deactivation; a very challenging issue during biomass CFP, especially using zeolites. The deactivation process is affected by many factors, including the composition of the feedstock (inorganic minerals present in the feedstock may also deposit on the catalyst), reaction conditions, and the nature/properties of the catalysts used in CFP. Precoking on the surface of zeolites or MgO deposition are among the proposed effective ways to suppress coke formation and thus, catalyst deactivation. This article is categorized under: Bioenergy > Science and Materials Energy Research & Innovation > Science and Materials Energy and Transport > Science and Materials. Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

In-situ reactive extraction of castor seeds for biodiesel production using the coordinated ultrasound – microwave irradiation: Process optimization and kinetic modeling
The present study demonstrates innovative and industrially viable in-situ biodiesel production process using coordinated ultrasound-microwave reactor. Reactive extraction process has been carried out by mixing grinded castor seeds with methanol in the presence of base catalyst (KOH). Response surface methodology coupled with central composite design has been applied for process optimization to achieve maximum yield. The result shows that maximum biodiesel yield of 93.5 ± 0.76% was obtained under favorable conditions of: molar ratio (350:1), catalyst (w/w) (1.74%), reaction temperature (43 °C) and reaction time (30 min). Regression equation obtained for the model having (R2), and (R2 adj) equal to 0.9737 and 0.9507 respectively shows goodness of fit. First time reaction kinetics as well as oil extraction kinetics studies have been performed on coordinated ultrasound-microwave reactor. Assuming pseudo first order reaction activation energy was found to be 28.27 kJ·mol−1 and activation energy for oil extraction was observed to be 9.11 kJ mol−1. Estimated activation energy for the reaction kinetics and extraction kinetics was reduced by 27%, reaction rate constants were eight to ten times higher and diffusion coefficient was found to be two times higher in case of hybrid system as compared to conventional mechanical stirring technique. Estimated thermo-physical properties of biodiesel were found in agreement with ASTM and DIN standards in comparison to gasoline diesel. Elsevier B.V.

Mono- and bimetallic nano-Re systems doped Os, Mo, Ru, Ir as nanocatalytic platforms for the acetalization of polyalcohols into cyclic acetals and their applications as fuel additives
We report here that the Re/SiO2 catalyst can be a suitable low-cost catalyst for processing polyols into acetals in solvent-free conditions with a high conversion rate and selectivity up to 100% in mild conditions. During a complex investigation, we broadly tested the blending potential of the acetals that were formed by measuring properties such as density, viscosity, isentropic compressibility, isobaric thermal expansion, cetane number and other parameters of both the crude additives and the blends that were prepared with petroleum diesel oil. The results indicate that the investigated acetals can generally be used for blending with petroleum diesel oil in order to obtain the valuable biofuels that are in great demand in the contemporary transportation industry due to the regulatory restrictions that have been introduced in order to protect the environment. Elsevier B.V.

Molecular interaction of heterogeneous catalyst in catalytic cracking process of vegetable oils: chromatographic and biofuel performance investigation
Catalytic cracking processes (CC) of non-edible vegetable oils (VOs) are considered efficient pathway to produce alternative energy sources to replace the fossil fuel. Castor oil (CO) and jatropha oil (JO) are the appropriate resources for biofuels because of their chemical structures and their hydrocarbon chains which are similar to fuel. This investigation was conducted to synthesize, characterize and evaluate acidic catalyst in the CC of castor and JO. The interaction between the oils and the catalyst was studied based on the brand of the produces biofuels. The effect of the concentration of the catalyst on the reaction product was studied including: viscosity, kinematic viscosity, pour point and cloud point. The results revealed that the prepared catalyst can catalyze the cracking reaction of the VOs and produce several grades of biofuels. The study displayed that the physical and fuel characteristics of the obtained biofuels are located within the ASTM specification limits. Also, the chemical nature of the cracked oil has a substantial impact on the composition of the achieved biofuel. The mechanisms of the CC processes of CO and JO were proposed. The physical and fuel properties of the achieved biofuels were discussed using their chromatographic analysis data. Elsevier B.V.

Catalytic deoxygenation of vanillin over layered double hydroxide supported Pd catalyst
A sustainable method was developed for the upgrade of biomass derived vanillin (a typical model compound of lignin) into the potential liquid biofuels over a layered double hydroxide supported Pd catalyst (abbreviated as CoAl–LDH/Pd). The CoAl–LDH/Pd catalyst showed high catalytic activity towards the hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin into 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) under mild conditions in aqueous media. High MMP yield up to 86% was produced at 120 °C after 4 h. Kinetic studies revealed that the rate-determining step for the hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin was the hydrogenolysis of vanillyl alcohol. More importantly, the CoAl–LDH/Pd catalyst was highly stable without the loss of activity. The Korean Society of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry

Impact of split injection strategy on combustion, performance and emissions characteristics of biodiesel fuelled common rail direct injection assisted diesel engine
In this work, the effect of single and split injection strategy on combustion, performance and emissions characteristics of biodiesel was experimentally investigated on a common rail direct injection assisted diesel engine. In single injection strategy, Nozzle opening pressure and fuel injection timing was varied from 200 to 600 bar and 19°–27° CA bTDC respectively. Experimental results revealed that B100 had the maximum brake thermal efficiency of 35.74% at 500 bar and 25° CA bTDC. Engine exhaust emissions of unburned hydrocarbon and smoke were decreased, whereas nitric oxide emission increased in B100 fuel at higher nozzle opening pressure and advanced fuel injection timing. In split injection strategy, start of main injection timing and post injection timing was varied from 19° to 25° CA bTDC and −5° CA bTDC to 5° CA aTDC respectively. The results exhibited that the B100-90%-10% has the maximum brake thermal efficiency of 34.43%. Minimum unburned hydrocarbon and smoke emissions were obtained in B100-75%-25%. Maximum nitric oxide emission was obtained in B100-90%-10%. Thus, the experimental studies clearly states that advanced injection strategy reduces the exhaust emissions and improves the engine performance. 

Photothermally promoted cleavage of Β-1,4-glycosidic bonds of cellulosic biomass on Ir/HY catalyst under mild conditions
Cellulose represents the major component of the abundant and inedible lignocellulosic biomass on earth. The valorization of cellulose into liquid biofuels and high value-added bio-based chemicals has drawn intensive attentions in recent years. However, because of the rigid structure of crystalline cellulose, the breakage of β-1,4-glycosidic bonds, the first step of cellulosic biomass utilization is still a critical challenge under mild conditions. Herein, we report the cleavage of β-1,4-glycosidic bonds of cellobiose on Ir/HY catalyst with high activity and high selectivity (>99%) under visible light illumination at temperature not exceeding 100 °C. We found that the hydrolysis of cellobiose under mild condition is mainly owing to a cooperation effect between the Ir nanoparticles as the plasmonic photothermal source and acid catalysis of HY zeolite. This work provides a distinctive, sustainable pathway to efficiently convert cellulose to chemicals driven by solar energy under mild conditions. Elsevier B.V.

Dandelion-like cobalt oxide microsphere-supported RuCo bimetallic catalyst for highly efficient hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural
Currently, renewable biomass-derived energy sources and related transformation technologies are attracting numerous attentions due to the rapid consumption of fossil fuels and resulting increasing environmental pollution. Herein, a new dandelion-like cobalt oxide (CoOx) microsphere-supported bimetallic RuCo catalyst was fabricated by a simple one-pot embedding method and employed for the 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) hydrogenolysis to produce liquid 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) biofuel. It was found that bimetallic RuCo nanoparticles (NPs) with the average size of about 2.5 nm could homogeneously disperse on flower-like CoOx microspheres possessing abundant surface defects (i.e. oxygen vacancies and Co2+ species) simultaneously constructed. As-fabricated RuCo/CoOx catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic performance in above reaction, along with a quite high DMF yield of 96.5% at a high HMF/Ru molar ratio of 252.7, which was corelated with the unique synergy between bimetallic RuCo NPs and abundant surface defects at the metal-support interface, as well as the enhanced hydrogen spillover effect and the dandelion-like superstructure of the catalyst. Additionally, the strong interactions between RuCo species and the CoOx matrix in the RuCo/CoOx significantly prevented RuCo NPs from migration, aggregation, and leaching during the reaction. The present findings offer a new approach for designing other highly efficient and stable bimetallic catalysts applied in a variety of heterogeneous catalytic systems. Elsevier B.V.

Bio-Oil Upgrading Using Methane: A Mechanistic Study of Reactions of Model Compound Guaiacol over Pt-Bi Bimetallic Catalysts
Biomass and shale/natural gas will be two important alternative resources for fuel and chemical production for at least the next century. Bio-oil, deriving from the fast pyrolysis of lignin, is a key second generation biofuel, containing high oxygen content. Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is typically employed to improve the quality of bio-oils, while the high cost of hydrogen prevents its commercialization. On the other hand, although it is the primary component of shale and natural gas, methane direct conversion to higher hydrocarbons has remained a challenge since the 1980s. Following our recent work, in the present study, methane is used to upgrade guaiacol, a well-known model compound of bio-oils, over Pt-Bi bimetallic catalysts supported on activated carbon (AC). Various characterization techniques, including transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET), H2 temperature-programmed desorption (H2-TPD), H2-O2 titration, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) and temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR), were utilized to obtain catalyst structure and properties. It was found that as compared to the Pt catalyst, Pt-Bi bimetallic catalysts exhibited relatively stable (no significant deactivation) guaiacol upgrading performance for 8 h TOS (time on stream), generating partially deoxygenated products along with ethane. The addition of Bi suppresses coke formation, improving catalyst stability. The isotopic labeling tests demonstrate that ethane is produced either from coupling of two methane molecules (20-25%) or from a methane molecule combining with a methyl from guaiacol (75-80%). American Chemical Society.

Economic potential of 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (MTHF) and ethyl levulinate (EL) produced from hemicelluloses-derived furfural
Sugars derived from biomass hemicelluloses, especially pentoses, have low value because they are generally not suitable for industrial fermentation processes. In contrast, dehydration of xylose, one of the main constituents of hemicelluloses, yields furfural. The dehydration process is relatively simple, and furfural has several applications mainly in the polymer and lubricant industries. Moreover, chemical upgrade of furfural can yield 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (MTHF) and ethyl levulinate (EL), two chemicals that can be used as fuel additives in gasoline and diesel, respectively. In this work, three chemical upgrading routes for furfural were proposed and simulated based on process data available in the literature. The economic analysis showed the feasibility of producing MTHF in a two-step hydrogenation process, in four geographic regions (Brazil, China, European Union, and the United States). The maximum furfural price to allow profits at a minimum acceptable rate of return of 10% is $457 Mg−1. On the other hand, the conversion of furfural to ethyl levulinate is not economically attractive mainly because of its lower energy density, which resulted in a low selling price. This study also discussed the need for new catalysts to avoid high hydrogen to furfural ratios while enabling hydrogenation at high pressures. These operating conditions were found to be major technoeconomic hurdles for the chemical upgrade of biomass-derived furfural to MTHF and EL. 

Performance analysis of IC engine with ceramic-coated piston
Experimental investigation about the ceramic coating on diesel engine components is to evaluate its effective efficiency with respect to different loads. It is conducted on the Kirloskar single cylinder diesel engine; in addition, the engine performance, emission, and combustion have been analyzed by treating with the coated piston on the engine runs with diesel (D100) and biodiesel (B100). Yttria-stabilized zirconia is the ceramic agent coated on the piston with the help of plasma spray coating method. After the experimental results based on the comparison of coated and uncoated piston, it shows that the coated piston performed very effectively with increased brake thermal efficiency, decreased specific fuel consumption at all applied spectrum of loads. The emission is also evaluated with special equipment for testing and it shows that the hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide are some major pollutants tend to reduce in the coated piston than the uncoated piston. But there is an increase in nitrogen monoxide where it is controlled by varying injection timing and pressure with advanced fuel injectors according to the survey. Other benefits of this thermal barrier coating are that thermal fatigue faced by the surface of the components can be reduced to a greater level. The combustion has high heat release rate and pressure due to the complete heat within the insulated chamber without any conduction through the surface of the surrounded components., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

K+ trapped kaolinite (Kaol/K+) as low cost and eco-friendly basic heterogeneous catalyst in the transesterification of commercial waste cooking oil into biodiesel
Raw kaolinite mineral was modified by alkaline potassium hydroxide solution at 373.15 K for 8 h and calcinated at about 573.15 K to produce a new low cost and eco-friendly heterogeneous catalyst for efficient transformation of commercial waste cooking oil into biofuels (biodiesel). The synthetic catalyst was defined as K+-trapped kaolinite (Kaol/K+) and characterized by XRD, TEM, SEM, BET, and FT-IR in addition to the investigation of other properties as ion exchange capacity and total basicity. Different operating parameters were involved for the transesterification system for waste cooking oil in the presences of Kaol/K+ as a basic catalyst. 343.15 K temperature, 14:1 methanol-to-oil molar ratio, 180 min conversion time, and 15 wt% catalyst loading were defined as the best conditions for maximum production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil with yield percentage of 94.76%. The basicity and catalytic activity of kaolinite/K+ enhanced greatly with increasing the concentration of KOH solution up to 30% and then decreased again with the studied higher concentrations (35% and 40%). The catalyst can be reused for five runs using distilled water, methanol and acetone as washing reagents with clear preferences for organic solvents. The properties of the produced biodiesel in this study match the requirements of ASTM D-6571 specification and EN 14214 specification as the international standards for biodiesel in the world. 

Conversion of poplar into bio-oil via subcritical hydrothermal liquefaction: Structure and antioxidant capacity
Subcritical hydrothermal liquefaction of poplar was performed at 220–280 °C, and the liquid phase produced was extracted by ethyl acetate to obtain light oil (LO), which contained LO1 (water-soluble) and LO2 (ethyl acetate-soluble). The residue was further extracted with acetone to produce heavy oil (HO) and solid residue (SR). The highest bio-oil yield of 19.88% was obtained at 260 °C. The HO produced at 260 °C had the highest content of C (69.13%) and the higher heating value was 27.97 MJ/kg. The O/C and H/C ratios of LO were higher than those of HO due to less aromatics in LO. Oxidative inhibition rates of bio-oils, measured in DPPH-ethanol solution at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL, reached 60.76% for LO1 while 90.29% and 90.85% for LO2 and HO, respectively. The bio-oil with good antioxidant activity can be utilized as an additive in bio-diesel to improve oxidation stability. 

Malic acid production from biodiesel derived crude glycerol using morphologically controlled Aspergillus niger in batch fermentation
In the present investigation, the effects of crude glycerol concentration, spore inoculum concentration, yeast extract concentration and shaking frequency on seed morphology of Aspergillus niger PJR1 on malic acid production were investigated and dispersed fungal mycelium with higher biomass (20.25 ± 0.91 g/L) was obtained when A. niger PJR1 grow on crude glycerol. Dry cell weight under dispersed fermentation was 21.28% higher than usual pellet fermentation. The optimal crude glycerol, nitrogen source and nitrogen source concentration were found to be 160 g/L, yeast extract and 1.5 g/L, respectively. Batch fermentation in a shake flask culture containing 160 g/L crude glycerol resulted in the yield of malic acid 83.23 ± 1.86 g/L, after 192 h at 25 °C. Results revealed that morphological control of A. niger is an efficient method for increased malic acid production when crude glycerol derived from biodiesel production is used as feedstock. 

Castor oil biodiesel production and optimization
Biodiesel is evolving to be one of the most employed biofuels for partial replacement of petroleum based diesel fuel, especially in recent years. The most widely used feedstocks for biodiesel production are vegetable oils. In this work, biodiesel production from castor oil has been synthesized by homogenous alkaline transesterification. The influence of catalyst concentration, methanol:oil molar ratio, reaction temperature and reaction time in the methyl ester content reached by castor oil transesterification have been evaluated. A yield of 95 wt% biodiesel was achieved at 1 wt% KOH, 60 °C, 9:1 methanol:oil ratio and 30 min reaction time. Transesterification at temperature 30 °C gave a yield compatibles with that obtained at 60 °C. The composition of the fatty acid methyl ester was determined by Gas Chromatography. The castor oil biodiesel produced was blended with different concentrations of petrodiesel to obtain B5, B10 and B20. The biodiesel properties and its blends were determined according to the standard test methods of analysis. The results showed that Castor oil biodiesel in the blends could lower the cloud point value, but simultaneously, increases the viscosity of the diesel–biodiesel blends. Thus, castor oil biodiesel with its very low cloud and pour points is suitable for using in extreme winter temperatures. Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute

Solar light induced photon-assisted synthesis of TiO2 supported highly dispersed Ru nanoparticle catalysts
Ru/TiO2 are promising heterogeneous catalysts in different key-reactions taking place in the catalytic conversion of biomass towards fuel additives, biofuels, or biochemicals. TiO2 supported highly dispersed nanometric-size metallic Ru catalysts were prepared at room temperature via a solar light induced photon-assisted one-step synthesis in liquid phase, far smaller Ru nanoparticles with sharper size distribution being synthesized when compared to the catalysts that were prepared by impregnation with thermal reduction in hydrogen. The underlying strategy is based on the redox photoactivity of the TiO2 semi-conductor support under solar light for allowing the reduction of metal ions pre-adsorbed at the host surface by photogenerated electrons from the conduction band of the semi-conductor in order to get a fine control in terms of size distribution and dispersion, with no need of chemical reductant, final thermal treatment, or external hydrogen. Whether acetylacetonate or chloride was used as precursor, 0.6 nm sub-nanometric metallic Ru particles were synthesized on TiO2 with a sharp size distribution at a low loading of 0.5 wt.%. Using the chloride precursor was necessary for preparing Ru/TiO2 catalysts with a 0.8 nm sub-nanometric mean particle size at 5 wt.% loading, achieved in basic conditions for benefitting from the enhanced adsorption between the positively-charged chloro-complexes and the negatively-charged TiO2 surface. Remarkably, within the 0.5-5 wt.% range, the Ru content had only a slight influence on the sub-nanometric particle size distribution, thanks to the implementation of suitable photo-assisted synthesis conditions. We demonstrated further that a fine control of the metal Ru nanoparticle size on the TiO2 support was possible via a controlled nanocluster growth under irradiation, while the nanoparticles revealed a good resistance to thermal sintering. by the authors.

Alumina-coated mesoporous silica SBA-15 as a solid catalyst for catalytic conversion of fructose into liquid biofuel candidate ethyl levulinate
Ethyl levulinate (EL) will be biomass-derived compound, which could be transformed into a variety of valuable compounds. In this work, a series of alumina-coated silica SBA-15 catalysts were prepared via wet-impregnation method and were applied in the conversion of fructose into EL. These catalysts were characterized by FT-IR spectroscopy; low and wide-angle XRD, N2 adsorption–desorption, ICP-OES, TEM, SEM, EDX and elemental mapping techniques. Among the catalysts, Al-5-SB catalyst with Al content of 2.2% showed the best results for EL production with the selectivity and yield 86% and 58%, respectively. The various parameters such as the temperature of the reaction, time of the reaction, catalyst amount and the initial amount of fructose were investigated. Moreover, an experimental design was used to find optimized reaction conditions so that 190 °C for the reaction temperature, 4 h for the reaction time, and 50 mg of the catalyst for EL production was selected. As well as, the reusability of the catalyst was studied and it was reused for four runs without significant change in its catalytic activity. Elsevier B.V.

Chlorine Influence on Palladium Doped Nickel Catalysts in Levulinic Acid Hydrogenation with Formic Acid as Hydrogen Source
Levulinic acid (LA) is a platform molecule, and its valorization toward biofuel additives like γ-valerolactone or tetrahydrofuran is considered as an important step in planning future biorefinery schemes. In this study, various Ni based catalysts were studied for the LA hydrogenation with formic acid (FA) used as a hydrogen source. Two different ways of catalytic activity improvement are discussed (nickel loading vs addition of dopants). The influence of Ni doping by small amount of noble metals (Pt, Pd, Ru, Rh) showed that Ni-Pd is the most active catalyst. Its high catalytic performance is attributed to the synergic effect between two metals and interaction with chlorine. The effect of chlorine on catalytic performance and properties of the catalysts was evaluated by variety of surface and bulk-sensitive characterization methods. It was shown that addition of chlorine is one of the key factors required for high catalytic performance. Chlorine influences distribution of metals on the surface of the catalyst, their interaction with support and facilitates the formation of small crystallites, which is beneficial for reaching high catalytic activity. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Simultaneous extraction and emulsification of food waste liquefaction bio-oil
Biomass-derived bio-oil is a sustainable and renewable energy resource, and liquefaction is a potential conversion way to produce bio-oil. Emulsification is a physical upgrading technology, which blends immiscible liquids into a homogeneous emulsion through the addition of an emulsifier. Liquefaction bio-oil from food waste is characterized by its high pour point when compared to diesel fuel. In order to partially replace diesel fuel by liquefaction bio-oil, this study aimed to develop a method to simultaneously extract and emulsify the bio-oil using a commercial surfactant (Atlox 4914, CRODA, Snaith, UK). The solubility and stability of the emulsions at various operating conditions such as the bio-oil-to-emulsifier ratio (B/E ratio), storage temperature and duration, and co-surfactant (methanol) addition were analyzed. The results demonstrate that higher amounts of bio-oil (7 g) and emulsifier (7 g) at a B/E ratio = 1 in an emulsion have a higher solubility (66.48 wt %). When the B/E ratio was decreased from 1 to 0.556, the bio-oil solubility was enhanced by 45.79%, even though the storage duration was up to 7 days. Compared to the emulsion stored at room temperature (25 °C), its storage at 100 °C presented a higher solubility, especially at higher B/E ratios. Moreover, when methanol was added as a co-surfactant during emulsification at higher B/E ratios (0.714 to 1), it rendered better solubility (58.83-70.96 wt %). Overall, the emulsified oil showed greater stability after the extraction-emulsification process. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Assessment the activity of magnetic KOH/Fe3O4@Al2O3 core–shell nanocatalyst in transesterification reaction: effect of Fe/Al ratio on structural and performance
Recently, biodiesel production using heterogeneous catalysts has been of great concern. However, simple separation of these catalysts from product mixtures is a problem of the process. In this study, series of magnetic KOH/Fe3O4@Al2O3 core–shell nanocatalysts were synthesized via the incipient wetness impregnation method and the effect of weight ratio of Fe3O4-to-Al2O3 (0.15–0.35) on the catalytic performance was assessed. The samples were characterized by XRD, FTIR, BET-BJH, VSM, SEM, TEM, and EDX analyses and their basicity was measured by the Hammett indicator method. The results revealed that although the magnetic KOH/Fe3O4@Al2O3 nanocatalyst with 25 wt% of Fe3O4 showed less activity as compared to those with 15 wt% of Fe3O4, it exhibited higher surface area and appropriate magnetic properties. The sample presented superparamagnetic properties with the magnetic strength of 1.25 emu/g that was simply recovered by using an external magnetic field. The nanocatalyst converted 98.8% of canola oil to biodiesel under reflux condition at the best operational conditions of 12 M ratio of methanol/oil, 4 wt% of catalyst and 6 h of reaction time. Moreover, the nanocatalyst showed high reusability such that it was reused several times without appreciable loss of its catalytic activity., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Effect of ethanol on Mulberry bark hydrothermal liquefaction and bio-oil chemical compositions
The aim of the study was to investigate hydrothermal liquefaction of Mulberry bark in sub-critical ethanol-water co-solvents (S-C-E-W) (50:50, v/v) and sub-critical water (S-C-W) with K2CO3 as catalyst at fixed condition (300 °C and 60 min). The derived bio-oil was analyzed by FTIR and GC-MS, FTIR and XRD were used to characterize Mulberry bark and the solid residues. The results showed that liquefaction efficiency of Mulberry bark was higher in S-C-E-W (95.72 wt %) than that in S-C-W (87.5 wt%), and the bio-oil yield was a little more in S-C-E-W (30.32 wt %) than that in S-C-W (28.81 wt%), although the yield of the heavy oil (HO) varied little (26.16% in S-C-E-W, 26.25% in S-C-W), and the yield of the light oil (LO) was very low (4.16% in S-C-E-W and 2.56% in S-C-W). There was small difference between the higher heating values. The bio-oil components were complex, mainly contained phenols, aromatic, alkanes, ketone, esters, furans, nitrogen compounds, etc. The content of phenols in the bio-oil derived in S-C-W was more than that derived in S-C-E-W, and HO derived in S-C-E-W contained higher content of ester components. The liquefaction of Mulberry bark can be enhanced by ethanol.

Glycerol valorization by base-free oxidation with air using platinum–nickel nanoparticles supported on activated carbon as catalyst prepared by a simple microwave polyol method
Biodiesel is one of the most common biofuels, and its production yields a large amount of glycerol as a by-product. It is necessary to develop new technologies for the use of this by-product, adding value to the biodiesel production chain. In this work we investigated glycerol oxidation under mild reaction conditions (air as oxidizing agent and base-free medium) promoted by suitable catalysts. We prepared mono- and bimetallic catalysts of platinum, copper and nickel in the form of nanoparticles by conventional heating and by an alternative method using microwave heating. The nanoparticles were dispersed in activated carbon and tested in glycerol oxidation aiming its valorization into molecules with high added value. Copper and nickel monometallic materials were not active in glycerol oxidation. Platinum monometallic and platinum–copper and platinum–nickel bimetallic materials showed catalytic activity, with platinum–nickel prepared by microwave heating being the most active material in reactions tested. This catalyst presented glycerol conversion of approximately 20% with a turnover number of 9465 in a reaction time of 6 h and 58% of selectivity to glyceric acid, the main product obtained. The best performance of platinum–nickel prepared by microwave heating catalyst was attributed to the probable formation of a metallic alloy between Pt and Ni, as evidenced by the decrease in the lattice parameter for PtNi bimetallic nanoparticles. The results showed that it was possible to obtain an active catalyst in glycerol oxidation reaction under mild conditions via a simple methodology using microwave heating, which demands 94% less time in comparison with conventional heating., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Process Intensification by Exploiting Diluted 2nd Generation Bio-ethanol in the Low-Temperature Steam Reforming Process
Second generation bioethanol, obtained by the fermentation of lignocellulosic biomass, which is not competitive with the food and feed field, is one of the most interesting promising biofuels, already available in semi-commercial amount. Steam reforming of bioethanol has been used here for sustainable hydrogen and syngas production. Differently purified second generation bioethanol feeds, directly supplied by an industrial plant, for the steam reforming process, assessing the influence of impurities and catalyst formulation. Ni/La2O3, Ni/ZrO2 and Ni/CaO–ZrO2 prepared by Flame Spray Pyrolysis were used as catalysts. Catalytic performance at high and low temperature was evaluated in order to investigate a broad range of temperature, which is one of the most critical condition in term of catalyst activity and deactivation, besides energy saving. The possible effect of impurities contained in less purified feedstocks is also discussed. Stable performance up to 100 h-on-stream was attained even under stressing reaction conditions., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Waste to energy: the effects of Pseudomonas sp. on Chlorella sorokiniana biomass and lipid productions in palm oil mill effluent
Microalgae are recognised as promising feedstock for biofuel production. The feasibility in commercial scale microalgae cultivation could be enhanced by incorporating palm oil mill effluent (POME) as culture medium, for greater biomass growth and lipid production, together with POME bioremediation. The polluting POME is generated massively in Malaysia. POME contains high concentrations of carbon and nutrients, thus it is suitable to be applied for microalgae cultivation. The approach on waste to energy should be advanced. We studied the effects of applying Pseudomonas sp. on Chlorella sorokiniana CY-1 cultivation in POME. Pseudomonas sp. was found effective in POME decolourisation prior to C. sorokiniana CY-1 cultivation. Yet, microalgae biomass and lipid productions were higher in the non-decolourised POME. Pseudomonas sp. was as well-being co-cultivated with C. sorokiniana CY-1 in ratios of microalgae versus bacteria of 1:1; 2:1 and 1:2. Biomass of 2.04 g L−1 and biomass productivity of 185.71 mg L−1 d−1 were attained in ratio of 1:1. Interestingly, the lipid content exhibited was excellent (16.04%), and about twofold higher than other ratios and the control (without bacteria). Fatty acids compositions were dominated by C16:0 (32.49%), C18:1 (24.06%) and C18:2 (20.28%), which were desirable fatty acids for biodiesel production. Effective POME bioremediation achieved with chemical oxygen demand, total nitrogen and total phosphorus removal of 53.7, 55.6 and 77.3%, respectively. Co-cultivation of microalgae and bacteria can be applied in the POME treatment plant. This allows satisfactory biomass and excellent lipid yields for biofuel production, as well as effective wastewater bioremediation., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

A comparative study on the quality of bioproducts derived from catalytic pyrolysis of green microalgae Spirulina (Arthrospira) plantensis over transition metals supported on HMS-ZSM5 composite
This study investigated three different types of catalysts: Ni/HMS-ZSM5, Fe/HMS-ZSM5, and Ce/HMS-ZSM5 in the thermochemical decomposition of green microalgae Spirulina (Arthrospira) plantensis. First, non-catalytic pyrolysis tests were conducted in a temperature ranges of 400–700 °C in a dual-bed pyrolysis reactor. The optimum temperature for maximized liquid yield was determined as 500 °C. Then, the influence of acid washing on bio-products upgrading was studied at the optimum temperature. Compared to the product yields from the pyrolysis of raw spirulina, a higher bio-oil yield (from 34.488 to 37.778 %wt.) and a lower bio-char yield (from 37 to 35 %wt.) were observed for pretreated spirulina, indicating that pretreatment promoted the formation of bio-oil, while it inhibited the formation of biochar from biomass pyrolysis. Finally, catalytic pyrolysis experiments of pretreated-spirulina resulted that Fe as an active phase in catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic activity, toward producing hydrocarbons and the highest hydrogen yield (3.81 mmol/gr spirulina). Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Effects of inorganic and organic acid pretreatments on the hydrothermal liquefaction of municipal secondary sludge
In this study, the effects of inorganic (HCl, HNO3 and H2SO4) and organic (HCOOH, CH3COOH and HOOCCOOH) acid pretreatments on the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of municipal secondary sludge (MSS) were investigated. The results showed that all acid pretreatments could increase bio-oil yield by changing the proportion of organic matters and ash content in feedstock and thus facilitating the conversion of water soluble product to bio-oil. A maximum bio-oil yield of 26.75 wt% was obtained from the HCl pretreatment which increased 7.5 wt% compared to the blank experiment. Moreover, the inorganic acid pretreatments showed a better performance in terms of enhancing bio-oil quality as their higher heating values (HHVs, 31.83–36.04 MJ/kg) were much higher than that from organic acid pretreatments (24.57–29.22 MJ/kg). The characterization analysis of bio-oil indicated that the HCl pretreatment was most beneficial for the formation of light fraction and increment of hydrocarbon.

Microalgae cultivation in palm oil mill effluent (POME) for lipid production and pollutants removal
Microalgae cultivation in wastewaters has been identified as the solution for economical microalgae cultivation. This study investigated the feasibility of using POME for Chlorella sp. cultivation to yield biomass and lipids, as it generates massively in Malaysia which ranked world palm oil exporter. The optimal POME concentration and pretreatment strategy were applied to promote biomass and lipid productivities. Chlorella sorokiniana CY-1 attained maximal of 11.21% of lipid content with 2.12 g L−1 of biomass concentration when cultivation in acid-heat pretreated 30% (v/v) POME. This provides relatively higher yield than those reported values on POME. Pretreatment was found effective to enhance biomass productions, as it converts lignin in POME into reducing sugars to serve as the supplement. The pollutants removal efficiencies were 62.07% for TN, 47.09% for COD, and 30.77% for TP. This contributes towards greater feasibility in microalgae cultivation for biofuel productions and as well towards environmental sustainability. 

Fabrication of biobased heterogeneous solid Brønsted acid catalysts and their application on the synthesis of liquid biofuel 5-ethoxymethylfurfural from fructose
A series of biobased heterogeneous solid Brønsted acid catalysts with perfect spherical microstructures are successfully fabricated directly from waste Camellia oleifera shells by a simple hydrothermal carbonization-annealing-sulfonation process. 350 °C low temperature annealing process helps to increase the activity of the catalyst due to the simultaneous maintenance of the spherical microstructure and aromatic carbon framework. As a renewable catalyst with low cost, the as-prepared materials are successfully applied on the synthesis of green renewable liquid biofuel 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) directly from fructose. In the catalytic test, the influences of reaction time and temperature, fructose concentration, and adding amount of the catalyst on the yield of EMF are investigated systematically. As a result, the optimal reaction temperature is 100 °C, the EMF yield monotonically increases with prolonging the reaction time from 3 to 24 h, the optimal fructose concentration is 0.5 mmol, and the EMF yield gradually increases with increasing the adding amount of the catalyst from 50 to 150 mg. In addition, the as-prepared catalysts exhibit considerably high stability in the current EMF synthesis system, and they can maintain a similar level of reactivity after four catalytic cycles. Institute of Process Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences

Catalytic Conversion of Carbohydrates into 5-Ethoxymethylfurfural by a Magnetic Solid Acid Using γ-Valerolactone as a Co-Solvent
Selective conversion of carbohydrates to fuels and fine chemicals is of great importance for biorefinery. However, development of efficient solid acidic catalysts which perform stably for this process is still challenging. Herein, we reported a novel carbon-based solid acidic catalyst, prepared via hydrothermal carbonization of glucose followed by magnetization of Fe3O4 and sulfonation of H2SO4, which can serve as an efficient and recyclable catalyst in the catalytic dehydration of fructose to 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and subsequent etherification of 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) with ethanol from various carbohydrates. The effects of reaction conditions (temperature, time, solvents, catalyst amount, and γ-valerolactone (GVL) concentration) were optimized affording to a maximum EMF yield of 67.4 % at 120 °C, 55 wt % catalyst loading based on starting fructose and 60 vol.% of GVL in ethanol after 24 h of reaction. Noticeably, GVL promotes the formation of EMF and HMF reducing the extent of side reactions. Recycling experiments showed that the catalyst could be easily separated with a magnet and reused up to 4 consecutive times without significant loss of activity. The present work opens a way to synthesize reusable and cost-effective solid acidic catalysts from biomass wastes and may contribute to a holistic approach for biomass valorization. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Conversion of Palmitic Acid Over Bi-functional Ni/ZSM-5 Catalyst: Effect of Stoichiometric Ni/Al Molar Ratio
The conversion of the biomass-derived lipid, lignocellulosic and carbohydrate resources into renewable platform intermediates, chemicals and biofuels has been lately increasing in interest. The mechanistic reaction pathways, like hydro-deoxygenation, decarboxylation and hydrocracking, of the selected palmitic acid, as a model fatty acid, over Ni/ZSM-5 zeolite catalysts were studied. The ZSM-5 material with different Al/Si molar ratios was synthesized via a green template-free hydrothermal synthesis procedure, treated and subsequent functionalised with various Ni metal loadings. However, Ni/Al molar ratio was kept stoichiometric (Ni/Al = 0.5). The characteristic physicochemical properties of composite catalysts were studied by numerous characterization techniques, such as X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), scanning-, as well as high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (SEM/HRTEM), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). NiO with an average particle size of 10–20 nm was found on ZSM-5 support. The relative Ni/Al atom fraction in Ni/ZSM-5 systems influenced their Lewis/Brønsted acidic sites, as well as the external exposed area of prepared heterogeneous structures. Furthermore, the mentioned morphological parameters affected predominant catalytic routes. Species’ production mechanism, as a consequence of Lewis/Brønsted centre weak/strong acidity, as well as their integral concentration, was proposed, mirroring the observed process kinetics, selectivity and turnover. It was demonstrated that the main obtained products were esters, aldehydes, alcohols, hydrocarbons and gases (CO2, CO…), produced by deoxygenation (e.g. decarbonylation), hydrogenation and cracking, less, though, through isomerisation., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

Catalytic gasification of wheat straw in hot compressed (subcritical and supercritical) water for hydrogen production
To supplement the increasing energy demands and cope with the greenhouse gas emissions, biofuels generated from lignocellulosic biomass are gaining widespread attention. In this study, wheat straw was used as a candidate lignocellulosic biomass to produce hydrogen fuel through hydrothermal gasification. The fluid phases of water investigated for gasification included subcritical (300 and 370°C) and supercritical (450 and 550°C) phases. Along with the effects of temperature (300-550°C), the influences of feed concentration (20-35 wt%) and reaction time (40-70 minutes) were comprehensively studied for wheat straw gasification in subcritical and supercritical water. To maximize hydrogen and total gas yields, the effects of two metal catalysts (eg, Ru/Al2O3 and Ni/Si-Al2O3) were examined. Hydrogen and total gas yields, as well as lower heating values of the gas products, were comparatively evaluated during the subcritical and supercritical water gasification of wheat straw. Supercritical water gasification of wheat straw at 550°C with 20 wt% feed concentration for 60 minutes of reaction time resulted in higher yields of hydrogen (2.98 mmol/g) and total gases (10.6 mmol/g). When compared to noncatalytic gasification, catalytic gasification using 5 wt% loading of Ru/Al2O3 and Ni/Si-Al2O3 enhanced the hydrogen yields up to 4.18 and 5.1 mmol/g, respectively, along with respective total gas yields of 15 and 18.2 mmol/g. Nonetheless, wheat straw-derived biochar produced at high supercritical water temperatures also retained high carbon content and calorific value. The Authors. Energy Science & Engineering published by the Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Effect of different crystalline phase of ZnO/Cu nanocatalysts on cellulose pyrolysis conversion to specific chemical compounds
With an appropriate treatment, cellulose, as one of the main constituents of biomass, is a rich source of chemicals and fuels. Pyrolysis is a method whereby bio-oils can be formed at moderate temperatures and with the addition of a catalyst the composition of the bio-oil can be enhanced. Nanostructured ZnO is a mild catalyst for the pyrolysis of cellulose to bio-oils and with the addition of copper to the structure of ZnO the catalytic properties can be improved. The pyrolytic degradation of cellulose over ZnO/Cu doped nanocatalysts has been studied over the temperature range 400–800 °C with calculation of kinetic parameters. The results showed that with ZnO/2% Cu and ZnO/7% Cu, which had been heat-treated at 1000 °C, the yields significantly increased at 600 and 700 °C and the main components were aldehydes. In contrast, ZnO/Cu nanocatalysts prepared at 200 °C mostly generated ketones. The increasing amount of copper increased or decreased the content of some components at specific temperatures. The results demonstrated that ZnO/Cu nanocatalysts with different proportions of copper prepared and heat-treated at different temperatures affected the composition of the bio-oil., Springer Nature B.V.

Influence of the blend nickel/porous hydrothermal carbon and cattle manure hydrochar catalyst on the hydrothermal gasification of cattle manure for H2 production
This study presents the optimized hydrothermal gasification (HTG) and hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) of Cattle Manure (CM) and Cattle Feed (Canola Stalks) for hydrogen-rich gas, bio-oil and porous carbonaceous catalyst support production as a potential procedure to handle cattle wastes and produce valuable energy carriers. Our main objective in the present research was to produce H2-rich gas from the wastes of dairy cattle in the presence of the efficient catalyst supported on a support that was prepared from the cattle feed. Therefore, with the aim of improving one of the momentous dimensions in the sustainable development that is the environmental protection, considerable efforts were focused on the maximum exploration of dairy cattle waste materials. Three operating parameters of temperature (380–440 °C), reaction time (5–30 min), and feed concentration (2.5–3.5 wt%) were examined and their optimized levels were found to be 440 °C, 20 min, and 2.5 wt%, respectively. The hydrothermal gasification was performed using Ni catalyst supported on activated carbon canola stalks (ACCs), CM hydrochar that was produced via the HTC and further ZnCl2 chemical activation of canola stalks, and the combination of ACCS and hydrochar (called blend) catalysts under the optimized conditions. The impact of catalyst supports on the distribution of gaseous products was assessed by various techniques and accordingly, the blend catalyst increased the H2 and total gas yields by the factors of 1.73 and 1.66, respectively. Furthermore, the bio-oil of the HTG process was also collected and analyzed using GC/MS analysis and it was found that the CM bio-oil is rich in phenol and its derivatives, furans, Nitrogen-containing compounds, and aromatic molecular structures.

Microwave assisted synthesis of 5-ethoxymethylfurfural in one pot from D-fructose by using deep eutectic solvent as catalyst under mild condition
5-Ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF), a potential and viable biofuel, was synthesized in one pot from D-fructose by using cheaper and environmentally friendly deep eutectic solvents (DESs) at mild condition. A variety of DESs were synthesized and used under microwave irradiation to get the maximum conversion of fructose and selectivity to EMF. Among various DESs the combination of choline chloride-oxalic acid gave the highest conversion of D-fructose (92%) with yield of EMF (74%) in 3 h at 343 K. A systematic study on effect of different parameters on reaction rate and selectivity was undertaken. Ethyl levulinate (EL) is also formed due to a parallel reaction of D-fructose with ethanol and water generated in-situ coupled with a consecutive reaction of ethanol with EMF. The formation of EL, which is also a fuel additive, was controlled by using lower temperature. DESs are highly reusable and show good activity up to four cycles. All raw materials used in this process are derived from biomass. The process parameters were optimized to get maximum yield of EMF. The process is green.

Improved catalytic upgrading of simulated bio-oil via mild hydrogenation over bimetallic catalysts
The bio-oil, produced via fast pyrolysis of biomass, can be used as substitute for transportation fuels after its subsequent upgrading. However, conventional upgrading of bio-oil faces serious problems of rapid catalyst deactivation and low conversion efficiency, due to the high unsaturation degree of bio-oil. In this study, the mild hydrogenation of simulated bio-oil over monometallic catalysts (Pd and Pt) and bimetallic catalysts (Pt-Fe, Pd-Fe, Pt-Ni and Pd-Ni) was performed, in order to increase the saturation degree. It was found that the addition of Ni could significantly facilitate the conversion of phenols. The maximum conversion of guaiacol and phenol over Pt-Ni/SiO2 catalyst reached 97.8% and 99.6%, respectively. The introduction of Fe improved the conversion of AcOH by promoting the protonation of carbonyl group. Complete conversion of AcOH was achieved over Pt-Fe/SiO2 catalyst. The upgraded product, of which the activity was significantly improved, was ready for subsequent upgrading for liquid fuel production. Elsevier B.V.

Strain selection of microalgae isolated from Tunisian coast: characterization of the lipid profile for potential biodiesel production
Microalgae could be of importance for future biodiesel production as an alternative for a third generation of biofuels. To select the most appropriate strain for biodiesel production, three microalgae species, namely Isochrysis sp., Nannochloropsis maritima and Tetraselmis sp., isolated from Tunisian coast, were biochemically characterized. Initially, gas chromatography analysis showed that Isochrysis sp. and N. maritima contained 5- and 10-fold total fatty acids, respectively, more than Tetraselmis sp. Then, the two microalgae Isochrysis sp. and N. maritima were subject to random mutagenesis using ultraviolet-C radiation. Subsequently, a total of 18 mutants were obtained from both species. The neutral lipid evaluation on said 18 mutants allowed the retention of only 7 to further fatty acid characterization. Finally, gas chromatography revealed that the mutant 5c Isochrysis sp. was characterized by a high level of saturated fatty acids (52.3%), higher amount of monounsaturated fatty acids (29.3%), lower level of polyunsaturated fatty acids (18.4%) and a significant 1.3-fold increase in its C16–C18 content compared to the wild-type strain, which would make it an interesting candidate for biofuel production., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Bio-oil production from hydrothermal liquefaction of Pteris vittata L.: Effects of operating temperatures and energy recovery
Hyper-accumulator biomass, Pteris vittata L., was hydrothermally converted into bio-oils via hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) in sub-supercritical water. The distributions and characterizations of various products as well as energy recovery under different temperatures (250–390 °C) were investigated. The highest bio-oil yield of 16.88% was obtained at 350 °C with the hydrothermal conversion of 61.79%, where the bio-oil was dominated by alcohols, esters, phenols, ketones and acidic compounds. The higher heating values of bio-oil were in the range of 19.93–35.45 MJ/kg with a H/C ratio of 1.26–1.46, illustrating its high energy density and potential for use as an ideal liquid fuel. The main gaseous products were CO2, H2, CO, and CH4 with the H2 yield peaking at 22.94%. The total energy recovery from bio-oils and solid residues fell within the range of 37.72–45.10%, highlighting the potential of HTL to convert hyper-accumulator biomass into valuable fuels with high conversion efficiency. 

Ultrasonic pretreatment for low-temperature hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae: enhancing the bio-oil yield and heating value
We investigated the effect of ultrasonic pretreatment on the bio-oil yield and heating value in the low-temperature hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of microalgae. HTL is one of the thermochemical processes for bio-oil production. However, the high pressure of the process is one of the main challenges for commercialization. On the other hand, a decrease in the HTL pressure, and consequently a decrease in the temperature, results in a decrease in the bio-oil yield. In this work, we investigated a new method to increase the bio-oil yield at low pressures and temperatures. The microalgae (Nannochloropsis sp.) were first pretreated by ultrasonic waves for 30, 60, and 90 s at 100 W. After then, the bio-oil was produced using HTL at 210, 230, and 250 °C. According to the results, using ultrasonic-assisted HTL increased the bio-oil yield up to the maximum of 28.9% (90-s sonication time at 250 °C). Moreover, applying ultrasonic pretreatment resulted in a decrease in oxygen content of the bio-oil and consequently an increase in its heating value. However, the average nitrogen content did not change dramatically by using ultrasonic-assisted hydrothermal liquefaction., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Biodiesel production from waste cooking oil catalyzed by in-situ decorated TiO2 on reduced graphene oxide nanocomposite
Current research reports the synthesis of in-situ TiO2/RGO nanocomposite and used as a heterogeneous catalyst for the transesterification of waste cooking oil into biodiesel. The prepared catalyst was characterized viz. X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) techniques conforming the successful formation of nanocomposite. The effects of various reaction parameters used for transesterification were examined to optimize the reaction conditions. The best operational conditions were oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:12 at 65 °C with 1.5 wt% catalyst loading and reaction time of 3 h. The catalyst showed good catalytic activity in biodiesel production and biodiesel conversion of 98% was obtained under optimum reaction conditions. Biodiesel conversion was confirmed by Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (1H NMR), Carbon Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (13C NMR) and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (GC-MS) techniques. The excellent catalytic activity of TiO2/RGO could be attributed to the enhanced surface area of the composite. 

Nano-layered TiO2 for effective bacterial disintegration of waste activated sludge and biogas production
BACKGROUND: Proper management of the huge amount of waste activated sludge generated during the conventional treatment of wastewater is nowadays a major environmental issue. Proper treatment of sludge needs huge investment and proper handling. To address this issue, the immobilized photocatalyst (TiO2) mediated exocellular fractionation of bacterial pretreatment for anaerobic digestion was utilized as a sludge treatment technique. RESULT: Ti was deposited on glass substrate by a DC spluttering technique, and a TiO2 layer was formed by annealing in oxygen atmosphere. This immobilized TiO2 efficiently extricated the extracellular components after 45 min by removing 99% of the total extractable extracellular polymeric substances. The exocellular fractionated bacterial pretreatment induced 20% of COD solubilization with methane generation of about 0.0217 g COD g-1 COD d-1, which was higher than the sludge without any treatment and sludge with bacterial pretreatment only. CONCLUSION: An 8% increase in COD solubilization was achieved, which generated high quantities of methane. With the advantage of methane generation, the maximum profitable sludge reduction was obtained. Thin film deposition of TiO2 enables easy recovery of TiO2. The cost, energy, and solid balance analysis confirmed that this treatment method is field applicable. Society of Chemical Industry. Society of Chemical Industry

Production of 2-methylfuran from biomass through an integrated biorefinery approach
Herein we present a high yield 2-methylfuran production process with the required features to be implemented in a future integrated biorefinery. The strategy is based on the right solvent selection, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, which i) can be used to extract the reactant, furfural, from the aqueous solution obtained after corncob biomass hydrolysis; ii) allows for highly selective 2-methylfuran production form furfural with up to 80% yields and iii) presents suitable biofuel properties in the gasoline range. Using this innovative approach, two energy intensive separation steps are avoided: the initial furfural purification and the final solvent/product complete separation. Further benefits of this process arise from the developed low-cost, selective, and reusable Cu-Co/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. Elsevier B.V.

Magnetic Fe3O4/MCM-41 composite-supported sodium silicate as heterogeneous catalysts for biodiesel production
This study aims at the development of magnetically recyclable solid catalysts for the production of biodiesel. To achieve this, the magnetically susceptible Fe3O4/MCM-41 composites with core-shell structure were prepared, and sodium silicate was then supported on the magnetic materials by using epichlorohydrin as a cross-linking reagent. The core-shell structured magnetic support and so-prepared solid catalyst were characterized by various techniques. Characterization results showed that the sodium silicate was chemically bridged onto the Fe3O4/MCM-41 composites without obvious damage to the structure of the magnetic support. The solid catalyst exhibited a strong magnetic response and displayed extraordinary catalytic activities in the transesterification of soybean oil for the production of biodiesel, with the oil conversion reaching 99.2% by using the methanol-to-oil molar ratio of 25:1 and catalyst loading of 3 wt% at reflux of methanol after 8 h of reaction. Moreover, the separation of the solid catalyst from reaction mixture was readily achieved by simple magnetic decantation without obvious mass loss, and the solid catalyst could be reused for five times for the heterogeneous transesterification. 

A novel bio-nano emulsion fuel based on biodegradable nanoparticles to improve diesel engines performance and reduce exhaust emissions
Nowadays, energy is the most challenging issue in the world. Although nanotechnology has been promising in offering huge developments in various fields, there are still concerns about the potential threats of nanotechnology products and applications. The concerns are mostly about the possible entrance of nanoparticles into body and their toxicity. As metallic and metal oxide nanoparticles might have toxic effects on living organisms, the use of biocompatible nanoparticles can considerably reduce these concerns. In this research, a combination of diesel-biodiesel-water-biodegradable nanoparticles was used to optimize fuel consumption, reduce pollutants, and enhance diesel engine performance for first time. Carbon quantum dot nanoparticles were synthesized through the hydrothermal method using orange peel and were then characterized thoroughly. Water and quantum dot nanoparticles were added to the B15 fuel (diesel fuel containing 15% biodiesel) in various concentrations. Then, engine performance experiments were performed using a single cylinder engine to investigate functional parameters and assess exhaust pollutants. The obtained results showed that the addition of water and quantum dot nanoparticles to the B15 fuel causes an increase in engine torque and power and decreases the brake specific fuel consumption. This is due to the better mixing of the fuel and air in combustion chamber and provision of more oxygen. It was also revealed that the use of emulsion nanofuels decreases the emission of unburned hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides (NOx). By employing the B15W5-CQD60 fuel (B15 fuel containing 5% water and 60 ppm carbon quantum dots), diesel engine power at the rate of 2700 rpm was increased by 21% compared with the B15 pure fuel. Furthermore, using the B15W10 fuel (B15 fuel containing 10% water), NOx emission was decreased by 25% on average compared with the B15 pure fuel. 

Optimization of MnO2-Graphene/polythioaniline (MnO2-G/PTA) hybrid nanocomposite for the application of biofuel cell bioanode
This study reports the synthesis of a nanocomposite comprised of graphene (G) supported manganese dioxide (MnO2) incorporated into the network of polythioaniline (MnO2-G/PTA). The hybrid composite was applied as an electrode material for the development of a bioanode. The bioanode was fabricated by the electrochemical entrapment of ferritin (Frt) as mediator and glucose oxidase (GOx) enzyme in the matrix of the as-synthesized MnO2-G/PTA deposited on glassy carbon electrode (GCE) surface. The structural features and electrochemical behaviour of the modified electrodes were investigated by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), cyclic voltammetry (CV), linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The results unfolded that the hybrid electroactive support (MnO2-G/PTA) employed for the immobilization of the enzyme (GOx) established an appropriate electrical cabling between the redox enzyme (GOx) and the electrode surface with the assistance provided by the biocompatible mediator (Frt) working to enhance the electrical signals. The developed GCE/MnO2-G/PTA/Frt/GOx bioanode attained a maximum current density of 3.68 mAcm−2 at 35 mM glucose concentration at a scan rate of 100 mVs−1. Thus, the MnO2-G/PTA/Frt/GOx modified electrode possesses high potential and good biocompatibility for bio-electricity production from glucose. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Hybrid Catalytic Biorefining of Hardwood Biomass to Methylated Furans and Depolymerized Technical Lignin
A robust method is needed to achieve high yield all-catalytic conversion of recalcitrant lignocellulosic biomass to transportation fuels while maximizing carbon utilization from raw substrates. To accomplish this, we developed an integrated strategy that combines homogeneous and heterogeneous reactions with a treatment-extraction step to coproduce 2-methylfuran (MF) and 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) directly from hardwood poplar while maintaining high catalyst activity. In the first step, poplar wood chips were treated with dilute FeCl3 in THF-water at subpyrolytic temperature to yield 93.5% furfural (FF) from xylan and 66.0% 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) from glucan. Concurrently, a highly pure lignin powder was obtained from the liquor by precipitation upon room temperature vacuum recovery of THF from the water. Afterward, FF and HMF were extracted from water into an organic phase consisting of toluene and 1,4-dioxane treated with Ca(OH)2. A second hydrodeoxygenation reaction using Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalyst yielded 87.8% MF from FF and 85.6% DMF from HMF. Characterization of the lignin product showed its molecular weight to be reduced by an order of magnitude from its native state as well as complete removal of its native β-aryl ether linkages without hydrogen input or further heterogeneous catalytic processing. A 60% cumulative yield of MF, DMF, and lignin products from the available carbon (xylan+glucan+lignin) in poplar was achieved, rivaling more mature cellulosic ethanol strategies. Copyright American Chemical Society.

Effect of fuel molecules on properties and activity of KOH/calcium aluminate nanocatalyst for biodiesel production
New technologies such as microwaves have gained a large deal of attention from scientists and industries who sought increased rate of production processes. In this study, microwave irradiation was utilized to produce a novel KOH/Ca12Al14O33 nanocatalyst used for biodiesel production. As support, calcium aluminate was prepared by microwave combustion method using different fuels including urea, glycine, sorbitol, and citric acid. The samples were then impregnated by KOH to improve their catalytic activities for microwave-enhanced transesterification of canola oil for biodiesel production. Results of XRD, BET, FTIR, TG, EDX, and FE-SEM analyses showed differences in physicochemical properties of the samples when using different fuels with different flame characteristics and combustion temperatures. Only the urea-fueled sample showed the crystalline structure of monocalcium aluminate (CaAl2O4), with the other samples exhibiting amorphous structure of CaO–Al2O3. However, all samples, except for that prepared by citric acid, transformed to crystalline structure of Ca12Al14O33 by calcination during KOH impregnation. Among the samples, the KOH/Ca12Al14O33 nanocatalyst prepared by sorbitol showed the highest activity in microwave-enhanced biodiesel production because of its large surface area, pore size, and basicity, converting 93.4% of canola oil to biodiesel at a methanol-to-oil molar ratio of 18, catalyst concentration of 4 wt%, and microwave output power of 450 W in 60 min of reaction time. Moreover, the sample showed well-distributed particle sizes without any agglomeration, so that it could easily maintain its level of activity for several rounds of use., Islamic Azad University (IAU).

Magnetically recyclable acidic polymeric ionic liquids decorated with hydrophobic regulators as highly efficient and stable catalysts for biodiesel production
Biodiesel, typically produced from non-food crops with heterogeneous catalysts, deems to be a promising and sustainable alternative biofuel to petroleum-derived fuels. In this study, to improve biodiesel production process efficiency by acids, biodiesel production were successfully developed using a series of magnetically acidic poly(ionic liquid) catalysts with varying hydrophobicity and controllable acidity. The detailed characterization results demonstrated that the FnmS-PIL (1a, C8) core-shell structure catalyst had large Bruner Emmett and Teller (BET) surface area (128.1 m2/g), uniform mesoporous structure (4.2 nm), strong magnetism (12.4 emu/g), a high number of acid sites (2.14 mmol/g), strong acid strength (strong electron-withdrawing anion CF3SO3 − effect, −8.2 &lt; H0 &lt; −5.6) and strong hydrophobicity (water contact angle, 115.4°). For the biodiesel production, high biodiesel yields could be achieved by the esterification of oleic acid (by response surface methodology, RSM) and (trans)esterification of crude Euphorbia lathyris L. oils with an acid value of 24.59 mg KOH/g (by single factor optimization). Furthermore, a relative kinetic study was conducted wherein the activation energy was calculated as 39.2 kJ/mol and a pseudo-first-order model was determined for esterification. More importantly, the FnmS-PIL (1a, C8) catalyst was separated simply using a magnet and exhibited constant activity with biodiesel yield of 87.5% after five cycles in (trans)esterification. In addition, the biodiesel yield was maintained above 90% even with a water content of 6 wt% with respect to crude Euphorbia lathyris L. oils, and the fuel properties of Euphorbia lathyris L. biodiesel were found to satisfy the EN 14212 and ASTM D6751 standards, highlighting its potential in industrial biodiesel production as derived from crude non-food oil resources. 

Enrichment of bio-oil after hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of microalgae C. vulgaris grown in wastewater: Bio-char and post HTL wastewater utilization studies
In this study, bio-oil was produced through hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of C. vulgaris biomass cultivated in wastewater and was enriched into transportation fuels. Bio-oil yield was 29.37% wt at 300 °C, 60 min, at 15 g/200 mL biomass loading rate with 3% wt nano ZnO catalyst loading. Applying catalyst reduced oxygen and nitrogen content in bio-oil and increased its calorific value (19.6 ± 0.8 MJ/Kg). Bio-oil was enriched through liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) and higher yield was obtained at 30 °C for dichloromethane solvent (18.2% wt). Compounds of enriched oil were within the petro-diesel range (C8–C21). Bio-char after HTL process was activated and used as adsorbent in wastewater treatment process to remove organic pollutants (COD, NO3, NH3 and PO4). Treated wastewater can be supplied as growth medium for microalgae cultivation in further experiments. Nearly 3–4 times the nanocatalyst can be reused in the HTL process. 

Production, characterization and evaluation of the energetic capability of bioethanol from Salicornia Bigelovii as a renewable energy source
Bioethanol production from biomass must be sustainable for providing a real solution to the use of bioethanol as an alternative transportation fuel. In this work, we succeed in using Salicornia Bigelovii (halophyte plant) as a raw material for bioethanol production. The characterization studies indicate a biomass composition comparable to traditional lignocellulosic biomasses: about 46.22 ± 1.20 of cellulose, 14.93 ± 0.37 of hemicellulose and, a low lignin content (1.96 ± 0.21). The highest cellulose content (75.4%) without the presence of furfural aldehyde is obtained employing the wet oxidation pretreatment method, it is performed at 200 °C with test cycles of 10 min applying 1.0 MPa of oxygen pressure. The enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose is improved employing a dilute-acid hydrolysis after the pretreatment cycle, reaching an overall glucose yield of 91%. Moreover, inhibition of cellulose enzymatic conversion by filtrates is not observed during this process. The simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (employing Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast for 120 h) of the pretreated material (using wet oxidation followed by dilute-acid hydrolysis), shows a higher ethanol production yield of 98%. These results demonstrate that there is no need of additional nutrients for the fermentation of Salicornia Bigelovii hydrolysates. Additionally, the electrochemical evaluation demonstrate that bioethanol has a similar energetic capability than analytical ethanol, presenting a current density of ∼0.23 mA cm−2. 

Pd NP-Decorated N-Rich Porous Organic Polymer as an Efficient Catalyst for Upgradation of Biofuels
Hydrodeoxygenation process is a potential route for upgrading biofuel intermediates, like vanillin, which is obtained in huge quantities through the chemical treatment of the abundant lignocellulosic biomass resources of nature, and this is attracting increasing attentions over the years. Herein, we report the grafting of palladium nanoparticles at the surface of porous organic polymer Pd-PDVTTT-1 synthesized through the co-condensation of 1,3,5-triallyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-(1H,3H,5H)-trione and divinylbenzene in the presence of radical initiator under solvothermal reaction conditions. The Pd-PDVTTT-1 material has been characterized thoroughly by powder X-ray diffraction, nitrogen sorption, ultra-high-resolution transmission electron Microscopy, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, 13C MAS NMR, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analyses. High surface area together with good thermal stability of the Pd-PDVTTT-1 material has motivated us to explore its potential as heterogeneous catalyst in the hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin for the production of upgraded biofuel 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol in almost quantitative yield and high selectivity (94%). Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society.

Pd Nanoparticles Supported on Cellulose as a Catalyst for Vanillin Conversion in Aqueous Media
Palladium nanoparticles were first anchored on modified biopolymer as an efficient catalyst for a biofuel upgrade. Fluorinated compounds was grafted onto cellulose to obtain amphiphilic supports for on water reactions. Pd catalyst was prepared by straightforward deposition of metal nanoparticles on modified cellulose. The catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic activity and selectivity in hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin (a typical model compound of lignin) to 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol under atmospheric hydrogen pressure in neat water without any other additives under mild conditions. American Chemical Society.

Study on co-liquefaction of Spirulina and Spartina alterniflora in ethanol-water co-solvent for bio-oil
Spartina alterniflora of Lignocellulosic biomass is an invasive plant that rapidly grows in China which threatens the local ecological balance. The possibility of co-liquefaction (CL) of Spartina alterniflora with a low-lipid containing microalgae Spirulina in ethanol-water co-solvent (EWCS) for bio-oil production was investigated. The results show that bio-oil productivity was increased to 45.63 wt% with a higher heating value (HHV) of 34 MJ/kg, just because of the positive synergistic effect from CL process. In addition, the synergistic effect of bio-oil production has different performance at different temperatures, ethanol volume fraction or raw material blending ratio. Bio-oils were analyzed by GC-MS and FT-IR, which showed CL of mixed raw material resulted in a significant increase of hexadecanoic acid ethyl ester compared to liquefaction of pure Spirulina or Spartina alterniflora, indicated a good quality of bio-oil produced. 

Butanolysis: Comparison of potassium hydroxide and potassium tert-butoxide as catalyst for biodiesel preparing from rapeseed oil
Biodiesel is a mixture of esters of fatty acids (most often palmitic, stearic and oleic) and lower alcohols (in our work butanol) produced by transesterification. It is a renewable source of energy, prepared from triacylglycerides, which are contained in vegetable oils and animal fats. This work focuses on alkaline catalyzed transesterification of rapeseed oil with butanol and comparison of two catalysts (potassium hydroxide and potassium tert-butoxide). In industry is usually transesterification of rapeseed oil carried out like reaction catalyzed by potassium hydroxide. Potassium hydroxide have high content of K2CO3, KHCO3 and water. Moreover water is formed by neutralization of potassium hydroxide with free fatty acids contained in oil. In cause of tert-butoxide catalyzed reaction, it is not possible because tert-butoxide have not a OH− aniont, which is needed for water forming. The influence of various conditions (addition of water, temperature of separation, intensity of stirring and type of catalyst) on butanolysis process was studied for both catalysts. For both catalysts dependence of conversions on time were plotted. When tert-butoxide was used, satisfactory phase separation was not achieved. The only way was separation of hot crude reaction mixture without adding water. Ester formed by this method had high content of free glycerol and soaps, but reached higher conversion. The best results were obtained with KOH and subsequent separation of cold crude reaction mixture with the addition of water and slow stirring. The difference between reactions catalyzed by potassium hydroxide and potassium tert-butoxide was described. 

Optimizing the conditions for hydrothermal liquefaction of barley straw for bio-crude oil production using response surface methodology
The present paper examines the conversion of barley straw to bio-crude oil (BO) via hydrothermal liquefaction. Response surface methodology based on central composite design was utilized to optimize the conditions of four independent variables including reaction temperature (factor X1, 260–340 °C), reaction time (factor X2, 5–25 min), catalyst dosage (factor X3, 2–18%) and biomass/water ratio (factor X4, 9–21%) for BO yield. It was found that reaction temperature, catalyst dosage and biomass/water ratio had more remarkable influence than reaction time on BO yield by analysis of variance. The predicted BO yield by the second order polynomial model was in good agreement with experimental results. A maximum BO yield of 38.72 wt% was obtained at 304.8 °C, 15.5 min, 11.7% potassium carbonate as catalyst and 18% biomass (based on water). GC/MS analysis revealed that the major BO components were phenols and their derivatives, acids, aromatic hydrocarbon, ketones, N-contained compounds and alcohols, which makes it a promising material in the applications of either bio-fuel or as a phenol substitute in bio-phenolic resins. Elsevier B.V.

Biomass-derived mesoporous Hf-containing hybrid for efficient Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley reduction at low temperatures
The use of organic chemicals derived from renewable sources to synthesize functional solid materials for heterogeneous catalysis is of great significance. Herein, a new porous and acid-base bifunctional hybrid (FDCA-Hf) was designed and prepared by simple assembly of biomass-derived 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) with hafnium (Hf) under template-free conditions. The resulting FDCA-Hf hybrid with mesopores centered at 6.9 nm, moderate surface area (365.8 m2/g) and acid-base couple sites (density: 0.51 vs 0.97 mmol/g, acid/base molar ratio: 0.53), could selectively catalyze the Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley reduction of carbonyl compounds under mild reaction conditions (as low as 90 °C in a short time of 1 h), especially of ethyl levulinate to γ-valerolactone, in quantitative yields (95–100%) and relatively higher reaction rate (e.g., turnover frequency: 2.28 h−1) compared to other catalysts. Moreover, the efficient simultaneous (trans)esterification of Jatropha oils with high acidic values to biodiesel (up to 98% yield) could also be achieved over FDCA-Hf with robust acid-base catalytic sites. The FDCA-Hf hybrid was highly stable due to the presence of robust metal-organic framework and could be resued with no decline in activity. Further studies demonstrated that the synergistic role of Lewis acid-base couple species (Hf4+–O2−) and Brønsted acidic species (–OH) of FDCA-Hf contributed greatly to its pronounced catalytic activity. Elsevier B.V.

Hydrothermal Decarboxylation of Corn Distillers Oil for Fuel-Grade Hydrocarbons
Catalytic hydrothermal conversion of non-edible corn distillers oil (CDO), a low-value by-product of the ethanol industries, into high value fuel-grade hydrocarbons was investigated in near-supercritical water. The decarboxylation experiments were conducted using activated carbon in a 300 mL batch stirred tank reactor at reaction temperatures of 300–400 °C with pressure ranges from 2200–2500 psi (≈15–17 MPa), water/CDO (v/v) ratios of 2:1 to 5:1, and reaction times of 0.5 to 4 h at constant stirring speed (800 rpm). For the first time, complete removal of the −COO− group from CDO was achieved at 400 °C with 4 h of reaction time and a water/CDO (v/v) ratio of 4:1. The liquid products obtained were a mixture of saturated hydrocarbons, mainly C8–C16 (selectivity 49.7 %) and heptadecane (48.9 %) which have similar specific gravity, higher heating value (HHV), cloud points, and pour points to those of commercial fuels. 65 % liquid yield was obtained under optimal reaction conditions. The reaction mechanism was found to follow pseudo-first-order kinetics with an activation energy 66.1±3 kJ mol−1, which is much lower than similar reported literature values for the decarboxylation process. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Acid–base bifunctional Hf nanohybrids enable high selectivity in the catalytic conversion of ethyl levulinate to γ-valerolactone
The catalytic upgrading of bio-based platformmolecules is a promising approach for biomass valorization. However, most solid catalysts are not thermally or chemically stable, and are difficult to prepare. In this study, a stable organic phosphonate–hafnium solid catalyst (PPOA–Hf) was synthesized, and acid–base bifunctional sites were found to play a cooperative role in the cascade transfer hydrogenation and cyclization of ethyl levulinate (EL) to γ-valerolactone (GVL). Under relatively mild reaction conditions of 160 °C for 6 h, EL was completely converted to GVL with a good yield of 85%. The apparent activation energy was calculated to be 53 kJ/mol, which was lower than other solid catalysts for the same reaction. In addition, the PPOA-Hf solid catalyst did not significantly decrease its activity after five recycles, and no evident leaching of Hf was observed, indicating its high stability and potential practical application. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Magnetic Fe3O4-polyethyleneimine nanocomposites for efficient harvesting of Chlorella zofingiensis, Chlorella vulgaris, Chlorella sorokiniana, Chlorella ellipsoidea and Botryococcus braunii
A reduction in energy consumption at every stage of the down streaming process is needed to make 3rd generation of biofuels economically viable. In this study, magnetite (Fe3O4) nanoparticles were synthetized by coprecipitation of FeCl2 and FeCl3 in alkaline medium at two different temperatures. The particle sizes were 11.5 ± 4 and 9.5 ± 4 nm for the nanoparticles prepared at 80 °C and 25 °C, respectively. The adsorption of polyethyleneimine (PEI) onto Fe3O4 was studied by equilibrium batch measurements. A mono-layer absorption of PEI was found. The Fe3O4–PEI nanocomposites had a positive zeta potential, which decreased with increasing pH of the solution. The nanocomposites were used for magnetic harvesting of negatively charged Chlorella zofingiensis, Chlorella vulgaris, Chlorella sorokiniana, Chlorella ellipsoidea and Botryococcus braunii microalgae strains. Upon dosage of 200 mg/L of Fe3O4–PEI harvesting efficiencies of 68–97% were achieved at pH 4 within 1 min. The harvesting efficiency decreased with increasing pH of the suspension. The results demonstrate that Fe3O4 nanoparticles synthesized at the lower temperature (25 °C) could be used for an efficient magnetic harvesting of different microalgae strains. The lower synthesis temperature may thereby contribute to the cost reduction of microalgae harvesting. Elsevier B.V.

Magnetic and reusable MgO/MgFe2O4 nanocatalyst for biodiesel production from sunflower oil: Influence of fuel ratio in combustion synthesis on catalytic properties and performance
The successful synthesis of magnetic MgO/MgFe2O4 nanocatalyst via combustion method was achieved that has far less time and cost than the other methods. This catalyst was used in biodiesel production reaction from vegetable oil. By changing the fuel to nitrates ratio, proper structure of catalyst was obtained to produce biodiesel. Physiochemical analysis including XRD, FESEM, EDX dot-mapping, BET-BJH, FTIR and Surface Particle Size Distribution (SPSD) were used to define the characteristics of synthesized catalysts and optimum fuel ratio in combustion synthesis method. To evaluate the performance of the synthesized nanoceramics, all samples were used in the biodiesel production reaction. The results of XRD analyses showed the successful synthesis of MgFe2O4 crystals and also determined that other materials peaks (iron oxide phases) does not exist in the catalyst structure. BET-BJH analyses reveal the structures with large pore (more than 10 nm) and relatively good surface area (97.8 m2/g) for synthesized catalysts by combustion method. By biodiesel production reaction in the conditions of temperature = 110 °C, methanol-to-oil molar ratio = 12, catalyst concentration = 4 wt.% and reaction time = 4 h, it was found that the catalyst has great potential to produce biodiesel and also maximum conversion of 91.2% was obtained. For the stability test of catalyst, after convenient catalyst separation by magnet, it was used for five consecutive transesterification reactions that the results were very acceptable and finally the lowest conversion was achieved to be 82.4%. By the simultaneous consideration of analyses and reactor tests results, it was found that synthesized catalyst with fuel ratio of 1.5 has the best performance and it is very suitable for biodiesel production reaction. Elsevier B.V.

Optimization of bauhinia variegata biodiesel production and its performance, combustion and emission study on diesel engine
The response surface methodology (RSM) based on central composite design (CCD) was used to optimize various process variables such as methanol to oil molar ratio, reaction time, catalyst concentration (sodium phosphate) and temperature for biodiesel production. The optimum conditions obtained were as follows: 11:1 M ratio of methanol to oil, 45 min reaction time, 2.96 wt% catalyst concentration and 74 °C temperature. At these conditions, the obtained bauhinia variegata methyl ester (BVME/biodiesel) yield was 95.1%. Fatty acid composition of oil was categorized by using gas chromatography (GC) analysis. The biodiesel product was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR and 13C NMR). The fuel properties of the biodiesel were determined as per ASTM test method. The performance, combustion and emission characteristics of test samples (diesel, biodiesel test blends such as B10, B20, B30, B40 and B100) on a single cylinder diesel engine were studied. The test data were generated by varying the load (0%, 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%). Variations in the engine emissions were recorded using AVL DIGAS 444 analyser. The engine performance was slightly reduced and combustion characteristics had slightly changed when engine was fueled with biodiesel test blends. The CO and HC emissions were less for biodiesel test blends (except B100) but NOx emissions increased with closer engine performance when compared with diesel. 

Porous iron-phosphonate nanomaterial as an efficient catalyst for the CO2 fixation at atmospheric pressure and esterification of biomass-derived levulinic acid
Chemical fixation of CO2 and synthesis of biofuels through convenient reaction pathways are very demanding in the context of sustainable and eco-friendly catalysis. Herein, we report the synthesis of iron-phosphonate nanoparticles HPFP-1(NP) through the simple chemical reaction between hexamethylenediamine-N,N,N′,N′-tetrakis-(methylphosphonic acid) and FeCl3 under hydrothermal conditions. The material has been characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), N2 adsorption/desorption studies and FE-SEM. This porous material showed high catalytic activity for the synthesis of organic carbonates from a wide range of epoxides at room temperature in the presence of CO2 at atmospheric pressure. This nanocatalyst also exhibited excellent catalytic activity for the conversion of levulinic acid into alkyl levulinates. The HPFP-1(NP) catalyst showed high recycling efficiency in these catalytic reactions. Elsevier B.V.

Research Advances in Preparation of Furfural and Its Derivatives by Selective Catalytic Conversion of Hemicellulose [半纤维素选择性催化制备糠醛及其衍生物的研究进展]
The utilization of renewable biomass resources play an important role in solving the energy crisis and reducing environmental pollution. Along this background, the production of furan-based chemicals from lignocellulose becomes one of the research focuses in biorefinery. Furfural is the key furan-based building block, which is manufactured from hemicellulose fraction directly, and offers a promising, rich platform for lignocellulosic biofuels and value-added chemicals. So it is of great practical significance to develop green technologies for the production of furfural and the conversion of furfural to primary furan-based chemicals. In this review, the formation routes and catalytic conversion of hemicellulose into furfural were summarized with special attentions on the heterogeneous acid-catalysts for the production of furfural in the liquid phase, including zeolites, metal oxides, ion-exchange resins, clays and carbon materials. The formation routes and technologies starting from furfural to various furan-based chemicals, including furfuryl alcohol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, 2-methylfuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, furan, tetrahydrofuran, were reviewed., Editorial Board of «Chemistry and Industry of Forest Products». All right reserved.

Nickel based monometallic and bimetallic catalysts for synthetic and real bio-oil steam reforming
Catalysts based on Ni supported on alumina were studied for steam reforming (SR) of a synthetic bio-oil/bio-glycerol mixture and a real bio-oil. Catalyst tests were carried out in a continuous fixed bed reactor at atmospheric pressure and steam to carbon (S/C) ratio of 5.0. In the case of experiments with the bio-oil/bio-glycerol mixture the initial temperature was 1073 K, then it was successively changed to 973 K and 1073 K again to assess catalyst deactivation. Experiments with the bio-oil sample were run at 1073 K. First, the effect of modifications to the alumina support with CeO2 and La2O3 was studied in monometallic catalysts. Ni/CeO2–Al2O3 was identified as the catalyst more resistant to deactivation, likely due to its higher oxygen mobility, and selected for further tests. Then, bimetallic catalysts were produced by impregnation of noble metals (Pd, Pt or Rh) on the Ni catalyst supported on CeO2–Al2O3. Co-impregnation of Rh and Ni on the CeO2–Al2O3 support represented a further improvement in the catalytic activity and stability respect to the monometallic catalyst, leading to stable gas compositions close to thermodynamic equilibrium due to the favourable Rh–Ni interactions. Rh–Ni/CeO2–Al2O3 is therefore a promising catalyst to produce a hydrogen-rich gas from bio-oil SR. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Nitrogen-doped carbon-decorated copper catalyst for highly efficient transfer hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to convertibly produce 2,5-dimethylfuran or 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran
Currently, highly efficient transformation of abundant and low-cost renewable raw biomass into high-quality biofuels and important chemicals is one of the most promising solutions to the current energy crisis, rapid consumption of fossil resources, increasing emission of greenhouse gases and serious environmental pollution. Here, convertible production of promising 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) and 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran (DMTHF) biofuels was achieved successfully via green catalytic transfer hydrogenolysis of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) using a nitrogen-doped carbon (NC)-decorated copper-based catalyst with cyclohexanol as hydrogen source. DMF or DMTHF with high yield of 96.1% or 94.6% was produced convertibly through simply modulating reaction time. Extensive characterizations revealed that appropriate surface base sites on the catalyst could efficiently promote the activation of alcohol hydroxyl in cyclohexanol and the subsequent release of active hydrogen species, while highly dispersed surface Cu0 nanoparticles and electrophilic Cu+ species were beneficial to the hydrogen transfer and the activation of both the carbonyl group and the hydroxyl group in HMF, respectively. Moreover, as-fabricated NC-decorated Cu-based catalyst presented high stability without obvious loss of catalytic performance after five consecutive cycles, due to the strong interaction between the support and active metal species. Such non-noble metal catalyst has a promising industrial application in the production of valuable biomass fuels. Elsevier B.V.

On the impact of the preparation method on the surface basicity of Mg–Zr mixed oxide catalysts for tributyrin transesterification
Mixed metal oxides are promising heterogeneous catalysts for biofuel production from lipids via alcoholysis, however, the impact of solid acidity and/or basicity on reactivity is comparatively poorly understood. Two systematically related families of MgO–ZrO2 mixed oxide catalysts were therefore prepared by different synthetic routes to elucidate the impact of surface acid-base properties on catalytic performance in the transesterification of tributyrin with methanol. The resulting materials were characterized by TGA-MS, ICP-OES, N2 porosimetry, XRD, TEM, XPS, DRIFTS, and CO2-temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). MgO–ZrO2 catalysts prepared by both non-aqueous impregnation and citric acid-mediated sol–gel routes exhibit excellent activity and stability. The citrate routes favor highly dispersed MgO and concomitant Lewis acid-base pair formation at the interface with zirconia. However, for both the citrate and impregnation routes, tributyrin transesterification occurs over a common, strongly basic MgO active site. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Modified mesoporous HMS supported Ni for deoxygenation of triolein into hydrocarbon-biofuel production
A series of modified hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) supported by various Ni loading (5 wt% Ni, 10 wt% Ni, 40 wt% Ni and 100 wt% Ni) have been synthesized and systematically characterized. The resultant Ni catalysts improved the performance of the deoxygenation (DO) of triolein at a reaction temperature of 380 °C in a simple glass batch reactor under a solvent-free condition and are hydrogen-free. The incorporation of Ni loading into the HMS framework casued the catalytic activity to increase when compared to that of HMS. Surprisingly, 10 wt% Ni/HMS catalyst exhibited the highest conversion. It was observed that 10 wt% Ni loading was highly dispersed on the HMS which is capable of achieving 92.5% and 95.2% of conversion and selectivity, respectively. This is due to the synergistic effect of Si-O-Ni bonding and high dispersion of NiO on HMS. In this respect, the nature of catalyst support such as pore size and the high surface areas of HMS play an important role in enhancing the catalytic performance of DO reaction. This study has revealed that Ni/HMS catalyst is a promising catalyst that can be applied to the development of sustainable biofuel from non-edible oil. 

Computational Fluid Dynamics simulation of hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae in a continuous plug-flow reactor
Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) technique is used in this work to simulate the hydrothermal liquefaction of Nannochloropsis sp. microalgae in a lab-scale continuous plug-flow reactor to understand the fluid dynamics, heat transfer, and reaction kinetics in a HTL reactor under hydrothermal condition. The temperature profile in the reactor and the yield of HTL products from the present simulation are obtained and they are validated with the experimental data available in the literature. Furthermore, the parametric study is carried out to study the effect of slurry flow rate, reactor temperature, and external heat transfer coefficient on the yield of products. Though the model predictions are satisfactory in comparison with the experimental results, it still needs to be improved for better prediction of the product yields. This improved model will be considered as a baseline for design and scale-up of large-scale HTL reactor. 

Production of Light Olefins from Catalytic Cracking Bio-oil Model Compounds over La2O3-Modified ZSM-5 Zeolite
Diminishing fossil fuel reserves and the increasing consumption of light olefins are driving intensive research to find a new non-petrochemical substitute resource to produce light olefins. Biomass-derived bio-oil is a promising substitute resource because it is renewable, abundant, and carbon-neutral. In this study, three bio-oil models, oleic acid (OA), methyl laurate (ML), and waste cooking oil (WCO), were catalytically cracked over La2O3-modified ZSM-5 (LaZ) aiming for production of light olefins. The content of La2O3 in catalysts was adjusted to optimize the structure and properties of catalysts. The maximal light olefin yield was 131 mL/g for OA, 120 mL/g for ML, and 128 mL/g for WCO, which was obtained over the LaZ catalyst containing 6% La2O3 (6LaZ). The maximal light olefin selectivity was 36.1% for OA, 30.3% for ML, and 33.8% for WCO. The obtained light olefins mainly contained propylene (13.6-17.1%), ethylene (10.7-15.4%), and butene (5.3-6.3%). Aromatic hydrocarbons and graphite were the main components in the liquid product and solid product (coke), respectively. 6LaZ exhibited better catalytic activity and anticoking ability than La-free ZSM-5, which was attributed to its appropriate porosity and acidity. The unsaturated molecular structure of feedstock was found, helping to improve the light olefin yield. Our investigations are useful for developing a new process route to produce light olefins from renewable biomass resources. American Chemical Society.

Enhancing biomass and lipid productions of microalgae in palm oil mill effluent using carbon and nutrient supplementation
Microalgae are a promising feedstock for biofuel generation. Economical and effective mass cultivation is essential for greater feasibility in microalgal-based biofuel full applications. The present study reported on cultivation of Chlorella sorokiniana CY-1 in palm oil mill effluent (POME) under photoautotrophic and mixotrophic cultivation. Enhancement of biomass and lipid productions were carried out by using glucose, urea and glycerol supplementations. Mixotrophic cultivation was more effective than photoautotrophic condition. Glycerol addition exhibited greater microalgae growth performance compared to supplementing glucose or urea. Biomass (1.68 g L−1) and lipid (15.07%) production were highest in POME medium with combinations of 200 mg L−1 urea, glucose and glycerol supplementation. Chlorella sorokiniana CY-1 grown in POME with glucose and glycerol supplementation gave considerably comparable yields as in all supplements-added POME medium. Ideal fatty acids compositions shown in urea and glycerol supplemented-POME medium though lower biomass production obtained. The pollutant remediation efficiencies attained were 63.85% COD, 91.54% TN and 83.25% TP in all supplements-added medium. The estimated net energy ratio was 0.55 and nutrient cost could be reduced up to 76%. Cheap and effective carbon and nutrients supplementation is essential to minimize the economic impact and maximize yields in commercial scale microalgae cultivation for biofuel production and environmental sustainability. 

Dual acidic titania carbocatalyst for cascade reaction of sugar to etherified fuel additives
An inexpensive carbocatalyst containing Brønsted acidic sulfonic acid group and Lewis acidic Ti4+ is found to be effective for cascade conversion of C6 sugar to 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) via sequential dehydration, and etherification reactions. HMF and fructose conversions at mild conditions achieved 91% and 64% EMF yields, respectively. The results indicate that the two acid sites interplay synergistically for high EMF yield and minimal ring-opened product ethyl levulinate (EL), another promising biofuel additive. Etherification of 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF) with alcohols of varying carbon lengths formed alkoxymethylfurans (AMF) with high yields. The catalyst retained good activity upon recycling. The nature and strength of the acid sites are elucidated. Elsevier B.V.

Catalytic in Situ Hydrogenolysis of Lignin in Supercritical Ethanol: Effect of Phenol, Catalysts, and Reaction Temperature
This study aimed to explore the in situ hydrogenolysis of alkali lignin into bio-oil over three kinds of heterogeneous catalysts with varied catalytic properties (Ru/C, Ni/ZSM-5, and CuNiAl hydrotalcite-based catalyst) in supercritical ethanol. Phenol was first introduced to the in situ hydrogenolysis system to form a complex solvent to improve the lignin depolymerization over heterogeneous catalysts. The promotion effect of phenol was obviously observed during the hydrogenolysis process, leading to improved bio-oil yield and decreased solid residue yield, due to the unique dissolution and diffusion properties of phenol-containing solvent. The synergistic effects of basic sites and complex solvents were observed; thus, herein, the effect of catalysts, reaction temperature, and time on the hydrogenolysis, repolymerization, and coking on catalysts was investigated in detail, considering the molecular weight, elemental composition, and higher heating value (HHV) of bio-oil. The highest bio-oil yield was up to 81.8%, with an improved HHV of 30.09 MJ/kg, when the hydrogenolysis reaction was carried out at 290 °C for 3 h over CuNiAl catalyst, in ethanol-phenol solvent (phenol/lignin ratio of 0.8). This study could provide a beneficial reference for the hydrogenolysis of lignin over heterogeneous catalyzed systems in complex solvent. American Chemical Society.

Continuous Flow Conversion of Biomass-Derived Methyl Levulinate into γ-Valerolactone Using Functional Metal Organic Frameworks
The zirconium-based metal organic framework, UiO-66 (Zr), was successfully synthesized via solvothermal method, followed by various characterization including XRD, thermal analysis, N2 physisorption, and TEM. As-synthesized UiO-66 (Zr) was employed in the transformation of methyl levulinate (ML) to γ-valerolactone (GVL) via catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) under continuous flow and various reaction conditions, which gave superior catalytic performance and efficiency as compared to reported catalysts. The obtained results show great potential of applying UiO-66 (Zr) in upgrading biomass derivatives to useful biofuel/chemical products, paving the way for green energy production from renewable resources. American Chemical Society.

Second-generation biofuels: exploring imaginaries via deliberative workshops with farmers
Second-generation biofuels derived from agricultural lignocellulosic waste represent what is hoped to be a significant technological, but also socio-economic advance beyond the shortcomings of first generation biofuels (chiefly bioethanol). The development of advanced catalytic techniques is a central part of making such technologies viable. However, assessing the socioeconomic viability of technologies based on such techniques is necessary to help second-generation technologies both avoid the shortcomings of first-generation fuels and to become more responsive to actual social needs. A pilot deliberative workshop with farmers in Wales is described here in which the research team explored the potential societal impacts of novel nanocatalysis methods for second generation biofuels. Using risk and benefit-ranking/issue mapping methodologies, the workshop examined the part that second-generation biofuels might play in bioeconomies of different scales. Grounded scepticism from workshop participants delineated key socio-technical issues that will be highly consequential for the responsible development of second generation technologies., Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.

Bio-Oil as a Potential Biomass-Derived Renewable Raw Material for Bio-Phenol Production
A route for directional conversion of bio-oil into phenol by means of coupling the catalytic cracking of the bio-oil with the hydroxylation of the bio-oil-based benzene-rich aromatics is proposed. High selectivity for phenol in the resulting organic liquid was achieved, with an almost complete conversion of the bio-oil. Co-cracking of the bio-oil with methanol over a Zn-modified zeolite significantly enhanced the yields of aromatics and decreased the deactivation of the catalyst during the catalytic cracking of the bio-oil. The phenol yield depended on the metal oxide catalysts, the temperature, and the reaction time during hydroxylation of the benzene-rich aromatics. The reaction pathway of converting bio-oil into phenol was elucidated based on the products identified and the characterization of the catalysts. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Catalytic and non-catalytic hydrothermal processing of Scenedesmus obliquus biomass for bio-crude production – A sustainable energy perspective
In the present study, hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of wet Scenedesmus obliquus biomass into bio-crude was carried out. Initially, the biochemical composition of S. obliquus biomass was examined, and it indicated high protein (56.1%) followed by carbohydrate (22.3%) and lipid (11.5%) contents. The ultimate analysis unveiled the presence of high carbon (48.1%) and oxygen (36.1%) in the biomass. This study had shed light on the selection of ideal reaction conditions such as temperature (200, 250, 300 °C), pressure (100, 200, 300 bar), and residence time (30, 60 min) for producing maximum bio-crude with/without catalyst aid. In the absence of the catalyst, a bio-crude yield of 35.7% was obtained at 300 °C temperature, 200 bar pressure, and 60 min residence time. On an interesting note, bio-crude yield was increased from 35.7 to 45.1% by adding homogeneous acid catalyst CH3COOH at 300 °C reaction temperature, which was higher than the other acid catalysts HCOOH (40%), H2SO4 (38%), HCl (39%), H3BO3 (37%), and the base catalysts NaOH (38%), KOH (37%), Na2CO3 (40%), K2CO3 (36%), Ca(OH)2 (37%). Elemental analyses of bio-crudes indicated a higher heating value of 35–40 MJ/kg, carbon-74%, nitrogen-5.86%, hydrogen-10.9%, sulfur &lt;0.5 and oxygen content of 8.85%, which is comparable with petro-crude. Using CH3COOH as a catalyst in HTL led to reducing the oxygen content and simultaneously increased the higher heating value of bio-crude. In addition, GC-MS characterization of bio-crude indicated the presence of mono-aromatics, nitrogen heterocycles, phenols, indole and fatty acids. Thus, based on the yield and characteristics, the bio-crude produced from S. obliquus biomass could be used in petroleum refinery for fuel production. 

A comparative study on the quality of bio-oil derived from green macroalga Enteromorpha clathrata over metal modified ZSM-5 catalysts
The green macroalga Enteromorpha clathrata was pyrolyzed with or without catalysts at the temperature of 550 °C for producing high-quality bio-oil. The ZSM-5 and 1,2,3 mmol Mg-Ce/ZSM-5 catalysts were introduced to investigate the yields and components distribution of bio-oil. Increase of bio-oil production was obtained with the use of ZSM-5 and 1,2,3 mmol Mg-Ce/ZSM-5 catalysts. The 1 mmol Mg-Ce/ZSM-5 catalyst exhibited more promising property for promoting the relative content of C5–C7 compounds, and decreasing the relative content of acids in bio-oil. The results suggested that E. clathrata had potential as pyrolysis feedstocks for producing the high-quality bio-oil with large amounts of C5–C7 compounds and low relative content of acids when the 1 mmol Mg-Ce/ZSM-5 catalyst was used. Furthermore, the physicochemical properties of ZSM-5 and 1 mmol Mg-Ce/ZSM-5 catalysts were investigated by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and temperature-programmed desorption of ammonia. 

Congeneration biodiesel, ricinine and nontoxic meal from castor seed
Castor seed, as non-edible energy oilseed, was used to obtain several products, such as biodiesel, ricinine, and non-toxic castor seed meal through ultrasonic-assisted two-phase extraction (UATPE), alkaline transesterification, and recrystallization. The products with higher quality could be obtained by UATPE in shorter extraction time. The optimum conditions for UATPE were as follows: the extraction time of 60 min, the corresponding temperature of 55 °C, the ratio of castor seed meal, petroleum ether and deionized water was 1:4:6 (mg/mL/mL). Castor oil which was obtained by UATPE was used to produce the biodiesel. And the yield of biodiesel could come up to 95.7% with the temperature of 60 °C, the molar ratio of methanol to oil of 7:1, the amount of the catalyst of 0.7%, and the reaction time of 60 min. Meanwhile, with the trichrolomethanol as re-extraction agent, and ethanol as the recrystallization agent, the purity and recovery of the ricinine could be got to 97.7% and 93.8%, respectively. In addition, the structural characterizations of the obtained ricinine and biodiesel were carried out by UV, FITR, ESI-MS and other analytical methods. 

Porous Zr-Bibenzyldiphosphonate Nanohybrid with Extra Hydroxy Species for Enhancive Upgrading of Biomass-Based Levulinates
Lewis acidic and/or basic sites are typically clarified to play a positive role in the cascade hydrogen transfer and lactonization process, while the influence of Brønsted acid species on the catalyst activity and stability is rarely studied. In this work, a new acid-base bifunctional hybrid BPhZr with augmented average pore diameter was prepared from the assembly of ([1, 1’-biphenyl]-4,4’-diylbis(methylene))diphosphonic acid with zirconium via a facile solvothermal method. The effects of reaction parameters, substrate scope, and metal ion type were investigated. Besides the promotional effect of moderate Lewis acid/base sites and improved texture properties, the presence of Brønsted acidic species (e. g., –OH) in BPhZr was demonstrated to positively promote the synthesis of γ-valerolactone (GVL; ca. 95% yield) from levulinates via cascade transfer hydrogenation and lactonization. In comparison with previously reported catalysts, the BPhZr hybrid exhibited a superior activity in terms of TOF (3.2 h−1) and activation energy (21 kJ/mol) for the reaction. Moreover, BPhZr was found to be highly stable and recyclable in five consecutive cycles, showing no significant decrease in GVL yield and selectivity. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

A review on sustainable microalgae based biofuel and bioenergy production: Recent developments
Climate changes induced by anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions (mainly carbon dioxide) is one of the major threats of the modern era. Primary causes are the high reliance on fossil fuels for power generation, transportation, manufacturing and the intensive land usage (deforestation). The current share of renewable biofuel production in the overall fuel demand has been found insufficient to replace fossil fuels. Microalgae can deliver a sustainable and complementary biofuel platform with some important advantages. This review aims to offer a state-of-the art review of algal biomass conversion methods into various biofuel products, including biodiesel, syngas, biogas, bioethanol. Emerging more sustainable biofuel/bioenergy production technologies are highlighted. Attention is also paid to sustainable cultivation methods, including wastewater treatment and bioremediation to capture CO2 and fix nitrogen and phosphorus, produced from industrial, agricultural and municipal sources. Finally, a light is shed on the important role of algae metabolic engineering. 

Exergoeconomic analysis of a DI diesel engine fueled with diesel/biodiesel (B5) emulsions containing aqueous nano cerium oxide
The present study was focused on detailed exergoeconomic analysis of a single cylinder DI diesel engine fueled with diesel/biodiesel blend (B5) emulsified with water at different concentrations, i.e., 3, 5, and 7 wt%. Aqueous cerium oxide nanoparticles were also used at two levels (0 and 90 ppm) as a combustion improver. The combustion experiments were conducted under four engine loads in the range of 25–100% of full load condition at a fixed engine speed of 1000 rpm. More specifically, this study was carried out to find the most thermodynamically and economically favorable fuel compositions and engine operating loads. Overall, engine load had a significant effect on the exergoeconomic variables, while fuel type only affected some exergoeconomic parameters. The cost per unit of exergy for the shaft work exergy was considerably decreased by elevating engine load for all the fuel blends investigated. The lowest cost per unit of exergy for the shaft work was determined at 48.81 USD/MJ for neat diesel at full load condition. Although B5W3m was found to be an exergetically and environmentally efficient fuel compared with the other blends, neat diesel was the most exergoeconomically attractive fuel as revealed throughout this study. This meant that one-dimensional criteria solely based on the conventional exergy analysis cannot be used as perfect decision-making paradigms on the efficiency and productivity of internal combustion engines. 

Optimization of pre-treatment process parameters to generate biodiesel from microalga
Cell disruption is an integral part of microalga production process, which improves the release of intracellular products that are essential for biofuel production. In this work, pre-treatment parameters that will enhance the efficiency of lipid production using high-pressure homogenizer on microalgae biomass will be investigated. The high-pressure homogenizer that is considered is a GYB40-10S/GY60-6S; with a pre-treatment pressure of 1000 psi, 2000 psi, and 3000 psi, the number of passes; 1, 2, and 3, a reaction time of 3, 3.5, and 4 h. Pressure and cavitation increase the efficiency of the pre-treatment process of the homogenizer. In addition, homogenization shear force and pressure are the basic significant factors that enhance the efficiency of microalgae cell rupture. Also, the use of modelling to simulate pre-treatment processes (Response Surface Methodology (RSM), Box-Behnken Designs (BBD), and design of experiment (DOE) for process optimization will be adopted in this study. The results clearly demonstrate that high-pressure homogenization pre-treatment can effectively disrupt microalga cell walls to enhance lipid recovery efficiency, with a relatively short extraction time, both that are essential for maintaining a good quality of lipids for biofuel production. A maximum of 18% lipid yields were obtained after 3 h of HPH pre-treatment at 3000 psi. by the authors.

Quantitative synthesis of 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan from biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural and sugars over reusable solid catalysts at low temperatures
Quantitative production of 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF) was achieved at room temperature (25 °C) via highly selective hydrogenation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) employing alkali salt KF as catalyst and polymethylhydrosiloxane (PMHS) as hydrogen source. A moderate turnover frequency (TOF: 4.2 h−1) was observed for this mild and sustainable reaction process. Moreover, a combination of Amberlyst-15 with KF could successfully catalyze the direct synthesis of BHMF from hexose sugars such as fructose and inulin via tandem dehydration and hydrogenation in a single pot. This catalytic system is more selective compared with H2-participated counterpart, giving a high BHMF yield and selectivity of up to 98% and &gt;99% from HMF, respectively. Moreover, the catalytic performance of KF could remain for at least five consecutive cycles in the conversion of HMF to BHMF. 

Hydrothermal liquefaction of biomass produced from domestic sewage treatment in high-rate ponds
This study evaluates the application of biomass produced from the treatment of domestic sewage in high-rate ponds (HRPs) as feedstock for the production of bio-oil via hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL). The effects of reaction time, temperature, and biomass/water ratio on the yield of bio-oil were assessed. In addition, a balance of carbon and nitrogen among the products (bio-oil, aqueous phase, solid residue, and gas) was carried out, in order to evaluate the quality of the bio-oil and possibilities for increasing value from the byproducts. In a 15-min operation at 300 °C with biomass/water ratio of 1/10 (w.w−1), the bio-oil yield was of 44.4% (Dry Ash Free - daf-basis). Under every condition tested, the solid residue was the most abundant byproduct, mostly due to the high ash content in the biomass. The minimum nitrogen recovery in the bio-oil was 57%, obtained in the operation at 275 °C, which is considered the main disadvantage of the process. The use of biomass directly after its production may result in an excessive consumption of energy due to the high water content. However, the need for drying is reduced when compared to other microalgal-based bioenergy production processes, potentially achieving a positive energy balance in the HTL. 

Lipase-inorganic hybrid nanoflower constructed through biomimetic mineralization: A new support for biodiesel synthesis
We reported a facile, economic and green method based on biomimetic mineralization to acquire lipase-inorganic hybrid nanoflower, which was then employed as a biocatalyst for biodiesel production. In the hybrid nanoflower, enzyme molecules and Cu2+ ions were utilized as the organic and inorganic components, respectively. The morphology of nanoflower and the distribution and loading of proteins were systematically characterized by scanning electron microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy and ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy, which indicated the successful encapsulation of lipase in the hybrid nanoflower. Using the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl caprylate as a model, lipase-inorganic hybrid nanoflower was observed to possess favorable catalytic activity and stability in the ester hydrolysis. Further, the hybrid nanoflower was used as a catalyst for biodiesel production, in which it could convert sunflower oil to biodiesel with 96.5% conversion and remain 72.5% conversion after being used for 5 cycles. Thus, the lipase-inorganic hybrid nanoflower is potential to be used as an economically viable biocatalyst for the production of biofuel as the future petrol-fuel replacement. Elsevier Inc.

Cobalt Nanoparticles Supported on Nitrogen-Doped Carbon: An Effective Non-Noble Metal Catalyst for the Upgrade of Biofuels
A new method has been developed for the deoxygenation of vanillin to produce 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (MMP) as a promising liquid fuel over a heterogeneous non-noble metal catalyst. Cobalt nanoparticles supported on nitrogen-doped carbon (Co/N-C-600) exhibit high activity and stability for the deoxygenation of vanillin into MMP under mild conditions (150 °C, 10 bar H2). Nearly quantitative MMP yield is obtained in isopropanol after 8 h at 150 °C and 10 bar H2 pressure. According to the distribution of products with time, the deoxygenation of vanillin into MMP mainly proceeds through the hydrogenation of vanillin into vanillyl alcohol and the subsequent hydrogenolysis of vanillyl alcohol into MMP, of which the latter is the rate-determining step, owing to a much higher activation energy. Moreover, after being recycled several times, the loss of catalytic activity is negligible, which demonstrates that the Co/N-C-600 catalyst shows good resistance to deactivation. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Catalytic hydroliquefaction of rice straw for bio-oil production using Ni/CeO2 catalysts
A series of Ni/CeO2 catalysts were synthesized via a simple one-pot hydrothermal method and characterized by XRD, SEM, TEM, EDX, EDX mapping, Raman, H2-TPR, BET, XPS, TGA and ICP-MS. Their catalytic performances were systematically evaluated in hydroliquefaction of rice straw. The impact of reaction temperature, reaction time, H2 pressure and Ni/Ce molar ratios on product yields and distribution was also investigated. The conversion (89.08%) of rice straw and bio-oil yield (66.7%) obtained over Ni/CeO2 catalyst with a Ni/Ce molar ratio of 2/10 are superior to those over no catalyst (conversion of 73.65%, bio-oil yield of 47.96%) and pure CeO2 catalyst (conversion of 77.79%, bio-oil yield of 56.67%) under the optimum condition (290 °C, 1.0 h, and 2.0 MPa H2 pressure). GC–MS results show that the main components of bio-oil are phenols, which are high-value-added, important and useful chemicals in transportation and chemical industries. It is worth noting that the highly dispersed Ni nanoparticles and their stronger interaction between Ni and CeO2 with more oxygen vacancies facilitate high conversion of rice straw and bio-oil yield. In addition, a possible catalytic mechanism of Ni/CeO2 catalyst for hydrogenation of rice straw is accordingly proposed. This work thus offers an effective approach to improve the conversion of rice straw and bio-oil yield over Ni/CeO2 catalysts. Elsevier B.V.

Production of an environmentally friendly fuel with the aid of ultrasonic waves from a new plant source, and the investigation of its effect on pollutants reduction in a CI engine
In this study, methyl ester of Sisymbrium plant seed oil with the chemical formula of C18H34O2 is produced for the first time, with the aid of ultrasonic waves and in the presence of a nanocatalyst. After measuring its characteristics and comparing with ASTM standard, it is tested and evaluated with different ratios of diesel fuel in a single-cylinder diesel engine. The reactions are accomplished in a flask by an ultrasonic processor unit and in the presence of CaO-MgO nanocatalyst. The engine tests were conducted based on the engine short time experiment. The results showed that with the increment of biodiesel ratio in the fuel blend, pollutants level of CO, HC, and smoke opacity are decreased comparing diesel fuel due to the improvement of the combustion process, and the amount of NOx emission is increased owing to high pressure and temperature of the combustion chamber. Also, produced biodiesel fuel causes an increment in the fuel consumption and exhaust gasses temperature. Overall, with regard to its effects on the engine and also being a native and easy cultivation plant, it can be resulted that Sisymbrium oil biodiesel and its blends with diesel fuel can be applied as an alternative fuel., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

Catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction of food waste using cezrox
Approximately 15 million dry tons of food waste is produced annually in the United States (USA), and 92% of this waste is disposed of in landfills where it decomposes to produce greenhouse gases and water pollution. Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is an attractive technology capable of converting a broad range of organic compounds, especially those with substantial water content, into energy products. The HTL process produces a bio-oil precursor that can be further upgraded to transportation fuels and an aqueous phase containing water-soluble organic impurities. Converting small oxygenated compounds that partition into the water phase into larger, hydrophobic compounds can reduce aqueous phase remediation costs and improve energy yields. HTL was investigated at 300◦C and a reaction time of 1 h for conversion of an institutional food waste to bio-oil, using either homogeneous Na2CO3 or heterogeneous CeZrOx to promote in situ conversion of water-soluble organic compounds into less oxygenated, oil-soluble products. Results with food waste indicate that CeZrOx improves both bio-oil higher heating value (HHV) and energy recovery when compared both to non-catalytic and Na2CO3-catalyzed HTL. The aqueous phase obtained using CeZrOx as an HTL catalyst contained approximately half the total organic carbon compared to that obtained using Na2CO3-suggesting reduced water treatment costs using the heterogeneous catalyst. Experiments with model compounds indicated that the primary mechanism of action was condensation of aldehydes, a reaction which simultaneously increases molecular weight and oxygen-to-carbon ratio-consistent with the improvements in bio-oil yield and HHV observed with institutional food waste. The catalyst was stable under hydrothermal conditions (≥16 h at 300◦C) and could be reused at least three times for conversion of model aldehydes to water insoluble products. Energy and economic analysis suggested favorable performance for the heterogeneous catalyst compared either to non-catalytic HTL or Na2CO3-catalyzed HTL, especially once catalyst lifetime differences were considered. The results of this study establish the potential of heterogeneous catalysts to improve HTL economics and energetics. by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license.

Promoting deoxygenation of triglycerides via Co-Ca loaded SiO2-Al2O3 catalyst
Triglycerides and fatty acid derivatives can be converted to hydrocarbon-grade green diesel that are entirely fungible to the fossil fuels. In the present study, deoxygenation (DO) process of triolein was studied by using mesoporous SiO2-Al2O3 supported Co-Ca catalyst. The presence of active metals (Co-Ca) showed high DO activity exclusively via decarboxylation/decarbonylation (deCOx) pathways with maximum hydrocarbon n-(C8-C20) yield of 73%, and high selectivity of n-C15 and n-C17 fractions. This results suggested the acid-base active sites of catalyst provide selective deCOx pathway of triglycerides structure. In additional, the presence of high surface area of Co-Ca/ SiO2-Al2O3 enhance the metal dispersion for better accessment of large molecular reactant with catalyst during DO process. An optimum Co metal content (10 wt.%) for deCOx reaction was observed, while an excess Co content is not preferable due to tendency of cracking effect. The efficiency of Co-Ca/SiO2-Al2O3 was investigated by using non-edible feedstock (e.g. Ceiba oil and Sterculia oil) along with catalyst stability study were carried out. Resulst also indicated that degradation of DO activity was due to the formation of coke. Elsevier B.V.

Enhancement of biological hydrogen production using green alga Chlorococcum minutum
It is estimated that the fossil fuel reserves are going to deplete continuously due to extensive usage. In order to cope with this crisis, it is necessary to increase the efforts towards production of biofuels such as biological hydrogen (H2). It is well-known fact that the biological hydrogen is a clean and ideal energy and liberates high amount of energy per unit mass. Several groups are working for the large scale production of H2 chemically and also using photosynthetic organisms, but output is not satisfactory. The best way to achieve enhancement of H2 is through altering the photosynthetic process by applying various stress conditions or by natural selection. In the process of selection, Chlorococcum minutum was found with improved H2 output when compared to model green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii in a massively parallel and competitive high-throughput screen of different green algae. Both the species belongs to class chlorophyceae of green algae and live in fresh water conditions. In extent various light, pH and temperature conditions were applied and achieved the enhancement of H2 production in this species under in vitro settings. Augmented hydrogenase activity was found in Chlorococcum minutum when compared to model alga and this may be one of the reason behind improved H2 output. Hence this species may be considered as one of the best species with respect to H2 production and also this work may be useful for future renewable energy research. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Effects of Cu-Ni Bimetallic Catalyst Composition and Support on Activity, Selectivity, and Stability for Furfural Conversion to 2-Methyfuran
Supported bimetallic catalysts have been demonstrated to enhance catalytic activity, product selectivity, and catalyst stability over supported monometallic catalysts for a range of catalytic reactions. However, the surface structure and composition of bimetallic particles can differ significantly from the bulk due to variations in surface energies and interactions with adsorbates, making the design of bimetallic catalysts with targeted properties and reactivities challenging. We report here the influence of catalyst support (Al2O3 and TiO2) on the surface composition and structure of bimetallic Cu-Ni nanoparticles with varying Ni weight loading (0, 0.5, 1.5, 3, 5, and 10 wt %) at a constant Cu loading of 5 wt % and a correlation to catalytic reactivity and stability in furfural (FF) hydrodeoxygenation (HDO). Analysis via depth-profiling X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy suggested that over a range of Ni compositions in Cu-Ni/Al2O3 catalysts, Cu and Ni were distributed evenly within bimetallic particles, although Cu and Ni segregated into contiguous monometallic domains at the particle surfaces. In contrast, on Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalysts near surface alloys formed, which were enriched in Cu at the particle surfaces and exposed only dispersed Ni species. The difference in compositional structure of the Cu-Ni particles on TiO2 and Al2O3 was attributed to strong and specific interactions between Ni and TiO2. On both supports the addition of Ni to Cu catalysts resulted in enhancements in the rate of FF HDO, although Al2O3 supported bimetallic catalysts promoted hydrogenation of the furan ring, forming mostly furfural alcohol and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, while TiO2 supported catalysts mostly resulted in carbonyl hydrogenolysis to form methyl furan (MF). Through optimization of support and bimetallic compositions, low-cost bimetallic catalysts were developed that demonstrated &gt;90% MF yields in FF HDO with good stability and regenerability. American Chemical Society.

Biodiesel from hydrolyzed waste cooking oil using a S-ZrO2/SBA-15 super acid catalyst under sub-critical conditions
Due to rapid changes in food habits, a substantial amount of waste fat and used oils are generated each year. Due to strong policies, the disposal of this material into nearby sewers causes ecological and environmental problems in many parts of the world. For efficient management, waste cooking oil, a less expensive, alternative and promising feedstock, can be used as a raw material for producing biofuel. In the present study, we produced a biodiesel from hydrolyzed waste cooking oil with a subcritical methanol process using a synthesized solid super acid catalyst, a sulfated zirconium oxide supported on Santa Barbara Amorphous silica (S-ZrO2/SBA-15). The characterization of the synthesized catalyst was carried out using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method. The catalytic effect on biodiesel production was examined by varying the parameters: temperatures of 120 to 200 °C, 5-20 min times, oil-to-methanol mole ratios between 1:5 to 1:20, and catalyst loadings of 1-2.5%. The maximum biodiesel yield was 96.383%, obtained under optimum reaction conditions of 140 °C, 10 min, and a 1:10 oil-to-methanol molar ratio with a 2.0% catalyst loading. We successfully reused the catalyst five times without regeneration with a 90% efficiency. The fuel properties were found to be within the limits set by the biodiesel standard. by the authors.

Rice bran oil based biodiesel production using calcium oxide catalyst derived from Chicoreus brunneus shell
Environmental pollution and the declining global supply of accessible fossil fuels are the key drivers of the search for alternative sources of energy. Biodiesel, a renewable liquid transport fuel, is commercially-produced using heterogeneous catalysts. Heterogeneous catalysts obtained from seashells appeared as promising alternatives thanks to their low preparation cost and increased efficiency in transesterification. In this study, shells from Chicoreus brunneus (known as Adusta murex) were calcined, hydrated, and dehydrated to produce CaO heterogeneous nanocatalyst for the transesterification of rice bran oil into biodiesel. Field emission scanning electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, surface area measurement (Brunauer-Emmett-Teller method), and X-ray diffraction were used to characterise the seashell-derived catalyst. The properties of the rice bran oil-derived biodiesel (acid value, calorific value, density, oxidation stability, and flash point) conformed to the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) D6751 and European EN 14214 biodiesel standards, except for kinematic viscosity. Therefore, the impact of the parameters used for production of the CaO heterogeneous nanocatalyst (calcination temperature and time) and the transesterification reaction (catalyst loading and methanol to rice bran oil ratio) on the kinematic viscosity of RBO-derived biodiesel were determined. A model for the transesterification process was developed using a combination of artificial neural networking with ant colony optimisation. The model predicted that C. brunneus-derived CaO catalyst prepared at 1100 °C for 72 min could be used to produce biodiesel from rice bran oil with a minimum kinematic viscosity (4.42 mm2 s−1) confirming to both the ASTM D6751 and EN 14214 biodiesel standards in a transesterification reaction operating with a 35:1 methanol to rice bran oil molar ratio and 0.5 wt% catalyst mass.

Biodiesel production from castor oil using heterogeneous Ni doped ZnO nanocatalyst
In the present study, castor oil with high free fatty acid was used for biodiesel production using heterogeneous Ni doped ZnO nanocatalyst. Ni doped ZnO nanocomposite calcinated at 800 °C has shown better catalytic activity. Process parameters on heterogeneous catalysis of castor oil into biodiesel were optimized using conventional and Response Surface Methodology (RSM). RSM was found more accurate in estimating the optimum conditions with higher biodiesel yield (95.20%). The optimum conditions for transesterification was found to be oil to methanol molar ratio of 1:8, catalyst loading 11% (w/w), reaction temperature of 55 °C for 60 min of reaction time by response surface method. The reusability studies showed that the nanocatalyst can be reused efficiently for 3 cycles. 

Pyrolysis of marine biomass to produce bio-oil and its upgrading using a novel multi-metal catalyst prepared from the spent car catalytic converter
In order to reduce the economic and environmental consequences caused by spent car catalyst, we herein report for the first time a novel promising multi-metal catalyst prepared from spent car catalytic converters to upgrade the pyrolysis bio-oils. The physico-chemical properties of prepared catalyst were characterized by XRD, EDS, FESEM, and FT-IR analyses. The thermal stability of the multi-metal catalyst was studied with TGA. To investigate the activity of the catalyst, Conversion of Cladophora glomerata (C. glomerata) into bio-products was carried out via a fixed bed reactor with and without catalyst at the temperature of 500 °C. Although the catalyst didn't catalyze the gasification reaction, bio-oil was upgraded over the catalyst. The main effect of the catalyst on the bio-oil components is deoxygenating of nitrogen compounds and promotion the ketonization reaction, which converts acid to ketone and declines the corrosive nature of bio-oil.

Trans-esterification of waste cooking oil with methanol by electrolysis process using KOH
Biodiesel produced form waste cooking oil (WCO) has increasingly attracted the attentions as an alternative fuel due to lower particulate emissions and other beneficial factors such as low cost. The present study investigated the production of biodiesel (BFD) as one of the effective methods in solving energy crises and environmental pollution. To increase the consumption of biofuels, a high yield biodiesels (96%) was produced as an alternative to fossil fuels by electrolysis method using graphite electrodes through trans-esterification reaction of WCO and KOH in presence of methanol. This reaction was done in 2 h without side saponification reaction. Biodiesel decreases the environmental effects of waste oil and can cause a new application for using the waste oil. The effect of the catalysis amount, oil/alcohol molar ratio, the amount of co-solvent, water amount, reaction temperature, voltage and the reaction time on biodiesel production were investigated confirming this method as a highly effective way for obtaining high yields. Increasing the catalyst beyond a known level decreases the reaction yield due to saponification side reactions; in consequence, an optimum amount of the catalyst should be used. Without inserting the electricity current in the environment temperature, trans-esterification reaction is done slightly in a long time but proper voltage should be used to obtain high yield, complete the reaction and decrease the reaction time. The purpose of this study is to show that the rheology of the biodiesel is a strong function of the shear history. 

Bio-affinity mediated immobilization of lipase onto magnetic cellulose nanospheres for high yield biodiesel in one time addition of methanol
To synthesis biodiesel from palm oil in one-time addition of methanol and solvent-free medium using CBD fused with C-terminal of lipase from G. stearothermophilus (GSlip-CBD) was immobilized onto magnetic cellulose nanosphere (MCNS). The immobilized matrix traits were preconceived by FT-IR, TEM and XRD. Perceptible biodiesel yield 98 and 73% was synthesized by GSlip-CBD-MCNS in 4 h and GSlip-MCNS in 6 h under the optimized conditions of oil:methanol ratio (1:3.5), temperature (55 and 50 °C) and enzyme loading (15 U). Intriguingly, the operational stability of GSlip-CBD-MCNS was an easily attainable owing to the magnetic properties and could be reused up to 8th and19th cycles with 94 and 45% of biodiesel yield respectively, compared to GSlip-MCNS. Thus GSlip-CBD-MCNS could be a potential biocatalyst for higher yield of biodiesel and reusability in one step addition of methanol. 

Optimization and kinetic study of CaO nano-particles catalyzed biodiesel production from Bombax ceiba oil
An attempt has been made to optimize biodiesel production from Bombax ceiba oil (BCO) through calcium oxide nanoparticles (CaO-NPs) catalyzed transesterification. Characterization of CaO-NPs synthesised by solution combustion method was carried out using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), Brunauer-Emmett Teller (BET) and Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The influence of reaction parameters was studied and optimized by using Response Surface Methodology (RSM) in combination with central composite design (CCD). Two-stage transesterification technique was employed for biodiesel production and 96.2% yield of Bombax ceiba methyl ester (BCME) was achieved under optimum conditions. The CaO-NPs were reused up to 5 cycles with appreciable loss of yield. From the kinetic study performed at different reaction temperatures (55 °C, 60 °C and 65 °C) Ea = 35.99 kJ/mol was obtained. Fuel properties of produced methyl ester were also determined and compared with ASTM standards for biodiesel. 

Multifunctional Role of Magnetic Nanoparticles in Efficient Microalgae Separation and Catalytic Hydrothermal Liquefaction
In this work, the efficiency of extracting algae from culture medium using magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs), converting the algal/particle slurry to biocrude using hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL), and successfully recycling the MNPs from the char phase was fully demonstrated for the first time. MNPs were synthesized by coprecipitation and used to extract algae from aqueous phase at a separation efficiency (SE) of 99%. The SE was optimized at pH 4. Liquefaction of algal/MNPs slurry gave a biocrude yield of 37.1% while algae only yielded 23.2%. The percentage areas in the GC-MS chromatogram corresponding to hydrocarbons (HCs) in Zn-ferrite catalyzed and uncatalyzed biocrude were 46.5% and 19.9%, respectively, while the percentage areas of heptadecane from Zn-ferrite catalyzed and uncatalyzed biocrude were 37.8% and 10%, respectively. Furthermore, the percentage area of heteroatom compounds in biocrude reduced substantially when liquefaction was done in the presence of Zn/Mg ferrites. The nanoparticles were recovered from biochar by sonication and recycled at a SE of 96.1%. Recycling of MNPs for magnetic separation of algae and catalytic HTL could lower the cost of microalgae harvesting and improve the yield and quality of biocrude. This could potentially reduce the cost of advanced biofuel processing from microalgae, making them more affordable in comparison to petroleum-derived fuels. American Chemical Society.

Sodium phosphate synthesis through glycerol purification and its utilization for biodiesel production from dairy scum oil to economize production cost
In the present study, sodium phosphate was synthesized through glycerol purification. The as-synthesized sodium phosphate was characterized and effectively utilized as a heterogeneous base catalyst for biodiesel production from dairy waste scum oil. In addition, sodium phosphate was synthesized from crude glycerol and the same can be used for biodiesel production, which is economically beneficial. Further, the maximum dairy scum oil methyl ester (DSOME/biodiesel) yield of 97.7% was achieved under optimum conditions of 11:1 molar ratio, 4 wt% catalyst loading, 65 °C temperature and 60 min reaction time with stirring at 700 rpm. The activation energy (E a ) of the transesterification reaction was found to be 35.56 kJ mol -1 . The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Palladium-metalated porous organic polymers as recyclable catalysts for chemoselective decarbonylation of aldehydes
A novel palladium nanoparticle (NP)-metalated porous organic ligand (Pd NPs/POL-xantphos) has been prepared for the chemoselective decarbonylation of aldehydes. This heterogenous catalyst not only has excellent catalytic activity and chemoselectivity, but also holds high activity after 10 runs of reuse. The effective usage of this method is demonstrated through the synthesis of biofuels such as furfuryl alcohol (FFA) via the highly chemoselective decarbonylation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxy-methylfurfural (HMF) with a TON up to 1540. More importantly, 9-fluorenone could be obtained in one step through the decarbonylation of 2-bromobenzaldehyde by using this heterogeneous catalyst. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Selective electrocatalysis of biofuel molecular oxidation using palladium nanoparticles generated on: Shewanella oneidensis MR-1
Production of molecular scale palladium (Pd) nanoparticles (NPs) is important due to their catalytic function in electrochemical oxidation of a number of core fuel molecules in fuel cells. Biogenic methods offer an economic and environmentally friendly synthesis route. In this work, the electrochemically active bacterium Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 is employed as a reducing agent to generate PdNPs as well as a support for the immobilization of the PdNPs. The synthesis was carried out at 28 °C and pH 7.0, and completed within one hour. The PdNPs are monodisperse (6.2 nm) and located on the bacterial membrane surface. Mapping by conductive atomic force microscopy shows that the presence of these PdNPs promotes electron transfer and enhances the electric conductivity of the cells. Compared to electrodeposited PdNPs, PdNPs generated by S. oneidensis MR-1 catalyze electrochemically the oxidation of formate with 200 mV less over-potential. Notably they show unique selective activity toward electrochemical oxidation of formate, whereas no electrochemical catalysis was found for oxidation of ethanol, methanol and acetate. This work demonstrates a sustainable and low-cost method for producing efficient PdNP catalysts with high catalytic selectivity. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Preparation of copper (II) containing phosphomolybdic acid salt as catalyst for the synthesis of biodiesel by esterification
Copper (II) containing phosphomolybdic acid (PMA) catalysts were synthesized by ion exchange method and characterization using various physico-chemical techniques such as X-ray diffraction (XRD), fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), thermogravimetric (TG) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The characterization results showed that the Keggin ions were retained in the catalysts and possessed well thermal stability. The catalytic esterification of lauric acid with methanol could be easily achieved about 78.7% conversion under optimum condition, the catalyst also contributed to the stability of the catalyst in which it can be reused for a certain time. This study demonstrated an alternative approach to biodiesel production with high efficiency by Cu (II) ion exchanged phosphomolybdic acid catalyst in the esterification catalytic. by Japan Oil Chemists’ Society.

Optimization of biodiesel production from goat tallow using alkaline catalysts and combining them with diesel
In this research biodiesel is produced from goat tallow in the presence of homogenous catalysts such as KOH and NaOH using trans-esterification process. For this purpose, effect of several parameters such as temperature, reaction time, methanol to oil ratio, type and concentration of a catalyst has been investigated. The results showed that the maximum biodiesel yield (96 and 98 %) was obtained using NaOH and KOH, respectively, and optimal conditions were determined. Also, to improve some properties of biodiesel, biodiesel was mixed with diesel at different ratio (B5-B100) and their properties such as flash point, cloud point, pour point, viscosity and density were measured. It was found that the properties of produced biodiesel is in the range of standard and can be used as a biofuel. Esmaeli H., Foroutan R., 2018.

Effect of synthesis and activation methods on the catalytic properties of silica nanospring (NS)-supported iron catalyst for Fischer-Tropsch synthesis
A nanostructured iron (Fe) catalyst for Fischer-Tropsch synthesis (FTS) was prepared and evaluated using a silica nanospring (NS) support. FTS offers an approach of producing biofuels from synthesis gas (syngas) produced via biomass gasification. The Fe/NS catalysts were prepared using three different methods: (i) incipient wetness impregnation, (ii) precipitation and (iii) modified sol-gel, in order to obtain different sizes of deposited Fe nanoparticles on the NS support and investigate the influence of particle size on FTS. The Fe decorated catalysts were calcined and then activated with either H2, CO or H2 + CO mixture. The prepared Fe/NS catalysts were characterized before the FT reaction by BET surface area, X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), temperature programmed reduction (TPR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) in order to find correlations between physico-chemical properties of catalysts and catalytic performance. The decoration of Fe nanoparticles of different sizes onto NS using the various methods ranged from 1.7 to 10 nm. The FTS performance was also evaluated in a quartz fixed-bed microreactor (H2/CO of 2:1, 270 °C) and the products trapped and analyzed by GC-TCD and GC–MS to determine CO conversion and reaction selectivity. These results show that the highest CO conversion (76.6%) and a wide distribution of light hydrocarbon (C6 to C14) were obtained for Fe/NS catalyst prepared by impregnation and activated with CO after 12 h of the FT reaction. Elsevier B.V.

Experimental evaluation of fatty acid composition influence on Jatropha biodiesel physicochemical properties
The physiochemical properties of biodiesel are significantly influenced by its fatty acid composition (FAC). This research investigates FAC of Jatropha biodiesel (JB) synthesized using feedstocks originated from the east (JBEM) and west (JBWM) Malaysian regions together with biofuel properties. The critical properties of pure biodiesels and blends were analysed according to ASTM D6751/EN 14214 standards. The JB properties were precisely regulated by its FAC features such as saturated fatty acids (SFAs), unsaturated fatty acids (USFAs), degree of unsaturation, and long chain saturated factor. The influence of SFA and USFA was inversely associated over biodiesel properties. The presence of higher SFA greatly affects biodiesel properties like the cetane number, cold filter plugging point, kinematic viscosity, density, cloud point, and pour point; conversely, the fuel properties such as oxidation stability, iodine value, acid value, water content, and flash point were improving with USFA contents. Blending of biofuels with petro diesels considerably improved their fuel properties. Author(s).

Heterogenization of a homogenous catalyst: Synthesis and characterization of imidazolium ionene/OH-@SiO2 as an efficient basic catalyst for biodiesel production
To develop green and recyclable catalysts for biodiesel production, herein, a reusable, eco-friendly catalyst was designed by immobilizing an oligomeric ionic liquid inside a SiO2 mesoporous matrix. Then, it was used in transesterification of several natural oils with methanol to produce biodiesel. In this study, the effect of an ionic liquid on the reaction rate has been demonstrated and compared with that of KOH as a routine catalyst for this reaction. The catalyst was characterized by FTIR, XRD, BET, FESEM, TEM, and TGA techniques. The effect of different parameters, such as temperature, molar ratio of methanol/oil, and amount of catalyst, was investigated to optimize the reaction conditions. The results showed that after 8 h of reaction at 60 °C with a methanol/oil molar ratio of 8 : 1 and 50 mg of the catalyst, the yield of methyl ester reached 96%. The reaction was also conducted in an autoclave at 200 °C, and the conversion after 1 h was over 97%. More importantly, due the SiO2 coating, the catalyst could be successfully recovered, and the catalyst could be used repeatedly for at least 5 cycles without any significant loss of activity. In particular, we were able to heterogenize a water soluble basic catalyst that was not soluble in methanol and separate it from the reaction mixture very easily. The Royal Society of Chemistry and the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.

Insights into the improvement effect of Fe doping into the CeO2 catalyst for vapor phase ketonization of carboxylic acids
The conversion of carboxylic acid through ketonization process reduces O-atoms and increases C[sbnd]C bonds, which can provide attractive routes for upgrading biomass feedstocks into biofuels. The key factors influencing the surface ketonization activity over CeO2-based oxides catalysts remain matters of active discourse. Here, a series of Ce1-xFexO2-δ catalysts were investigated for vapor-phase ketonization of acetic and propionic acid. The catalysts were characterized in detail using various physico-chemical techniques both before and after reaction to gain understanding of the ketonization process. The turnover frequency (TOF) based on the basic sites changed with the Fe content. The Ce0.8Fe0.2O2-δ sample showed the prominent ketonization activity with the highest TOF value. On one hand, for samples with a lower Fe addition (x &lt; 0.3), the formed CeO2-like solid solution with numerous Ce-O-Fe species showed a dramatic increase in surface oxygen vacancies. These oxygen vacancies were beneficial to catalytic performance. Moreover, the superior redox properties with weaken M[sbnd]O bonds of Ce-O-Fe species thereby promote the ketonization activity. On the other hand, the higher Fe addition (x &gt; 0.3) caused the damage of the Ce-O-Fe structure, thus reducing ketonization activity. Notably, the investigation of the reaction temperature regime of Ce0.8Fe0.2O2-δ sample directly proved the existence of surface redox cycle during the ketonization process.

Three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTs nanocomposite with enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells
Three-dimensional nanoarchitectures of Co3O4@multi-walled carbon nanotubes (Co3O4@MWNTs) were synthesized via a one-step process with hydrothermal growth of Co3O4 nanoparticles onto MWNTs. The structure and morphology of the Co3O4@MWNTs were characterized by X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, Brunauer–Emmett–Teller, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The electrocatalytic mechanism of the Co3O4@MWNTs was studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. Co3O4@MWNTs exhibited high electrocatalytic activity towards glucose oxidation in alkaline medium and could be used in nonenzymatic electrochemical devices for glucose oxidation. The open circuit voltage of the nonenzymatic glucose/O2 fuel cell was 0.68 V, with a maximum power density of 0.22 mW cm-2 at 0.30 V. The excellent electrochemical properties, low cost, and facile preparation of Co3O4@MWNTs demonstrate the potential of strongly coupled oxide/nanocarbon hybrid as effective electrocatalyst in glucose fuel cells and biosensors. The Authors.

Energy and exergy analyses of a diesel engine fueled with diesel, biodiesel-diesel blend and gasoline fumigation
In this study, the effect of gasoline fumigation on the energy and exergy balance of a DI diesel engine fueled with waste cooking oil biodiesel and diesel blend (B20) is experimentally investigated and theoretically studied. To have a comprehensive analysis, diesel and B20 were considered as two baseline fuels and gasoline fumigation was induced at two different ratios. The obtained results reveal that gasoline fumigation increases the energy and exergy efficiency at medium and high loads to about 5% for diesel baseline fuel, while the energy and exergy efficiency decreases slightly in case of B20 fuel with gasoline fumigation. For all operating points, the percentage of energy and exergy transfer through the exhaust gases decreases by an average of 2.6% and 6.4%, respectively in case of using gasoline fumigation for both diesel and B20 fuels. Moreover, the destructed exergy of the engine operating on B20 and the fumigated gasoline was higher than that of diesel and B20 by about 2.4% on the average. It could be concluded that the combination of B20 and gasoline fumigation might be used as a substitute for diesel fuel in diesel engines under high loads, with higher exergy efficiency and lower exhaust exergy losses. 

An assessment of pinecone gasification in subcritical, near-critical and supercritical water
Pinecone is a lignocellulosic forest residue with value-added industrial importance in terms of energy and materials production. Although promising, pinecone has received inadequate attention as a biofuel feedstock for thermochemical conversion. Water above its critical temperature (TC ≥ 374 °C) and critical pressure (PC ≥ 22.1 MPa), termed as supercritical water, has high kinetic energy and densities similar to that of gases and liquids, respectively. When employed in gasification, supercritical water has an ability to completely dissolve organics and gases. Therefore, this study identifies the candidacy of pinecone as a precursor for conversion to hydrogen through hydrothermal gasification. Pinecone was gasified in subcritical water (300 and 350 °C; 21 MPa), near-critical water (370 °C; 22 MPa) and supercritical water (450 and 550 °C; 23 MPa) to investigate the impacts of temperature (300–550 °C), feed concentration (10–25 wt%) and residence time (15–60 min). The impacts of alkali catalysts (e.g., Na2CO3, NaOH and KOH) at a loading of 30 wt% were examined to maximize hydrogen yields. The hydrochar generated from gasification in subcritical water, near-critical water and supercritical water were physico-chemically characterized through proximate and ultimate analysis (carbon-hydrogen-nitrogen-sulfur-oxygen), thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, Scanning electron microscopy and Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the non-catalytic gasification of pinecone, highest hydrogen (1.42 mmol/g) and total gas yields (6.6 mmol/g) with lower heating value (488 kJ/Nm3) of the gas products were obtained in supercritical water at 550 °C with 10 wt% feed concentration for 60 min. Moreover, at 30 wt% catalyst loading, highest hydrogen yield was obtained from KOH (3.26 mmol/g) followed by NaOH (2.71 mmol/g) and Na2CO3 (1.96 mmol/g). Hydrochars generated in supercritical water at 550 °C had a greater content of aromatic carbon and were thermally stable. The findings reveal, for the first time, the potential of pinecone for hydrogen production through subcritical, near-critical and supercritical water gasification, as well as the prospective of its hydrochar for environmental and material applications. Elsevier B.V.

A clean hydroprocessing of jatropha oil into biofuels over a high performance Ni-HPW/CNT catalyst
The nickel (Ni) and phosphotungstic acid (HPW) supported on carbon nanotubes (CNT) were prepared by impregnation method for hydroprocessing of Jatropha oil. The Ni-HPW/CNT catalyst was characterized by XRD, XPS, FT-IR, N2 adsorption-desorption, SEM, NH3-TPD, and TGA. The effects of reaction parameters, such as reaction temperature (280-400°C), time-on-stream (0-100h), types of support, the amount of added HPW, and coking deposition were investigated. The cracking performance was evaluated by gas chromatography (GC). The yield of C15-C18 alkanes was 88.5wt.%, Iso/n ratio was 0.8 and conversion was 97.7% at 320°C, 3.0MPa and 1.0/h over the Ni-HPW/CNT catalyst, while the yield of &lt;C15 alkanes reached 51.9wt.% at 400°C. The distribution of products could be adjusted by reaction temperature. The cracking performance was elevated by the addition of HPW and the electrical conductivity. The C15-C18 alkanes were further cracked through two cracking circulations. Meanwhile, the catalyst was used without sulfurization and the cracking process was green. World Scientific Publishing Company.

Kinetic analysis of ceria nanoparticle catalysed efficient biomass pyrolysis for obtaining high-quality bio-oil
Bio-oils obtained from biomass pyrolysis are being recognized as the next generation energy source. However, this technology has not yet been fully employed in real practice because of highly viscous and complex chemical nature of pyrolytic products and also due to lack of adequate understanding of such non-isothermal reactions. Catalysts can be used to upgrade the quality of bio-oils by enhancing the pyrolysis reaction efficiency and breaking down higher molecular weight compounds into simpler products. The study of the kinetics of this pyrolysis process explicates in depth knowledge about the reaction mechanism to have a better control over the efficiency of pyrolysis conversion of the biomass constituent. In this study, we focus on the kinetic analysis of ceria nanoparticles catalysed pyrolysis of cellulose, the major constituent of lignocellulosic biomass, for production of high-quality bio-oil. A non-isothermal kinetic analysis method identifies the reaction to be following a ‘one and a half order’ pathway and establishes significant lowering of activation energy after addition of the nanocatalyst. The merit of the nanocatalyst was again ascertained by performing qualitative analysis of pyrolytic liquids from cellulose in the presence of both bulk and nanosized ceria catalysts. It was observed that CeO2 nanoparticles improved the pyrolysis process enhancing the C–C bond scission reactions. As a result, percentage amount of lower molecular weight (96–144) compounds in the pyrolytic liquids increased with the addition of nanocatalyst (highest being 100% for 7% ceria nanocatalyst)., Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, Hungary.

Aqueous-phase reforming of methanol over nickel-based catalysts for hydrogen production
Water fractions derived from biofuel production contain oxygenated hydrocarbons that can be converted by aqueous-phase reforming (APR) into hydrogen. As a result, the product efficiency of biorefineries may improve. However, the hydrothermal and high pressure operating conditions of APR limit the reaction kinetics, thermodynamics and catalyst stability. To overcome these limitations, an active and durable catalyst should be developed to selectively convert oxygenated hydrocarbons into hydrogen. For this study, methanol was selected as a model compound. Nickel-based catalysts with dopants such as copper and cerium and different supports were tested for the APR of methanol. The results revealed enhanced performance of doped catalysts in comparison to monometallic materials, and the effect of supports improved in the order α-Al2O3 &lt; β-SiC &lt; ZrO2 &lt; γ-Al2O3. Accordingly, NiCe/γ-Al2O3 exhibited the highest values of methanol conversion and hydrogen yield. These results satisfied the target of this study to develop an active and hydrogen-selective catalyst and proved the suitability of cerium-doped nickel on alumina to convert methanol into hydrogen. 

MCM-41 Immobilized Acidic Functional Ionic Liquid and Chromium(III) Complexes Catalyzed Conversion of Hexose into 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural
The development of novel methods to obtain biofuels and chemicals from biomass has been an immediate issue in both academic and industrial communities. In this work, a series of novel catalysts were prepared and characterized by FT-IR, TGA, XRD, SEM, TEM, ICP-AES, NH3-TPD and BET, which were applied for the conversion of hexose to 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). The Cr(Salten)-MCM-41-[(CH2)3SO3HVIm]HSO4 catalyst was the most active catalyst, and a glucose conversion of 99.8% with 50.2% HMF yield was obtained at 140 °C for 4 h in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The effects of reaction temperature, reaction time, solvents and catalyst dosages were investigated in detail. MCM-41 immobilized acidic functional ionic liquid and chromium(III) Schiff base complexes as heterogeneous catalysts can be easily recovered by simple filter treatment, exhibiting excellent stability and activity towards hexose conversion. Thus the heterogeneous catalysts were environment-friendly for transforming biomass carbohydrates into fine chemicals. SIOC, CAS, Shanghai, & WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Recent progress in catalytic conversion of microalgae oil to green hydrocarbon: A review
The increase in greenhouse gas emission due to the burning of fossil fuels since the last century has led to global warming. This has triggered numerous researches in green hydrocarbon alternatives from renewable oil. Microalgae is one of the potential sources of green hydrocarbon, which will reduce the dependency on fossil fuel. This is because microalgae have a high oil or lipid content, rapid growth rate, and high ability to sequester carbon dioxide. Besides that, their cultivation does not require arable land and will, therefore not compete with global food production. The current biofuel production is based on the transesterification of triglyceride to biodiesel which suffered from several drawbacks such as high acidity, high viscosity, and low heating value, etc. A more efficient reaction route needs to be developed to produce biofuel which possesses similar properties as the fossil-derived fuel. Therefore, this review aims to encompass the conversion of microalgae oil towards green hydrocarbons via various catalytic reactions. The fundamental chemistry and mechanisms involved in the conversion of microalgae oil to useful chemical products are also discussed in detail. Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers

Use of 3D printing for biofuel production: efficient catalyst for sustainable biodiesel production from wastes
This work deals with the sustainable biodiesel production from low-cost renewable feedstock (waste and non-edible oils) using a heterogeneous catalyst constituted by potassium loaded on an amorphous aluminum silicate naturally occurring as volcanic material (pumice). The main challenge to biodiesel production from low-quality oils (used oils and greases) is the high percentage of free fatty acids (FFAs) and water in the feedstock that causes undesirable side reactions. The catalytic materials studied were tested in the transesterification reaction when using low-quality oils containing a high proportion of free fatty acids (FFAs) and water. Results indicated that the amount of acid and basic sites on the catalytic surface increases upon increasing potassium loading in the catalyst, displaying better performance for biodiesel production. Indeed, the modification of the aluminum silicate substrate upon potassium incorporation results in a catalytic material containing both acidic and basic sites, which are responsible for both triglycerides transesterification and FFA esterification reactions. The studied catalyst not only showed good performance in the biodiesel production reaction but also good tolerance to FFA and water contained in the feedstock for biodiesel production. The catalytic material was microstructured by 3D printing in order to design a catalytic stirring system with high mechanical strength, efficient and reusable. The use of 3D printing in biofuel production is a novelty that brings good solutions for catalyst production., Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany.

Prospect of castor oil biodiesel in Bangladesh: Process development and optimization study
In this study, castor oil (CO) has been investigated as a potential source for biodiesel production in Bangladesh. Castor oil has been extracted from the seeds by mechanical press and the Soxhlet extraction method. Maximum oil content of 55.7% has been found by the Soxhlet extraction method. The physicochemical properties such as free fatty acid (FFA) content, kinematic viscosity, saponification value, and density of the oil have been measured by different standard methods. The FFA content and viscosity have been found considerably higher such as 33.5% and 253 mm2/s, respectively. Biodiesel has been prepared using a three-step method comprising of saponification of oil followed by acidification of the soap and esterification of FFA. The overall yield of FFA from CO is found to be around 89.2%. The final step is esterification that produces fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) and a maximum 97.4% conversion of FFA to biodiesel has been observed. The effect of the oil to methanol molar ratio, catalyst concentration, reaction temperature, and time has been investigated for esterification reaction and optimized using the response surface methodology. 1H NMR of crude castor oil and castor oil methyl ester (COME) was studied and analyzed that confirms the complete conversion of castor oil to biodiesel. Finally, the biodiesel, produced under optimum conditions, was characterized using the various standard method and found comparable with petro-diesel and biodiesel standard. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Deoxy-liquefaction of Corn Stalk in Subcritical Water with Hydrogen Generated in Situ via Aluminum-Water Reaction
To reduce the oxygen content and increase the higher heating value (HHV) of bio-oil, this paper proposed a new method for deoxy-liquefaction of corn stalk in subcritical water with hydrogen generated in situ via aluminum-water reaction. The effects of aluminum on the physicochemical properties of bio-oil were investigated. The bio-oil was analyzed by elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The results showed that, when the aluminum content was 30 wt %, the yield of bio-oil reached 26.54 wt %, the deoxidation ratio was 47.92%, and the calorific value increased from 28.86 to 33.77 MJ/kg. The viscosity, acid value, and water content were also significantly improved. FT-IR analysis showed that the types of functional groups in bio-oil were almost unchanged. GC-MS analysis showed that the main components of bio-oil were phenols, ketones, hydrocarbons, and indoles. In addition, the content of aliphatic hydrocarbons and aromatic hydrocarbons was as high as 36.18% when the aluminum content was 30 wt %. American Chemical Society.

Nanocatalyzed biodiesel synthesis from the oily contents of Marine brown alga Dictyota dichotoma
This research article demonstrates biodiesel synthesis through the methanolysis of the oily contents (4.02 ± 0.27% w/w on dried basis) of Dictyota dichotoma collected from the coast of Hawksbay, Pakistan. The metal oxides (CaO, MgO, ZnO, and TiO2) used as nanocatalysts were refluxed (5% K2SO4), calcinated (850 °C) and characterized by Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) which produced 93.2% w/w FAME (biodiesel) at relatively mild condition (5% catalyst, 65 °C, 3 h, 18:1 molar ratio) using CaO. Whereas, MgO, ZnO, and TiO2 produced 92.4%, 72.5%, and 31.8% w/w FAME, respectively at elevated condition (225 °C). Thus, CaO was considered to be the best catalyst among the others. This tri-phase reaction require continuous fast mixing and the yield depends on the reaction parameters like catalyst amount, temperature, reaction time and molar ratio (methanol: oil). The reusability of these heterogeneous catalysts simplified the purification step, reduced the waste generation and make the final product technically and economically viable. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae to produce biofuels: state of the art and future prospects
The article presents a review of the state of the art and lines of research on hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of microalgae (MA). The main advantages of this technology for production of biofuel are that it does not require predrying of the feedstock and ensures a relatively high product yield—the ratio of the end product weight to the feedstock weight—owing to the fact that all the microalgal components, viz., lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates, are converted into biofuel. MA hydrothermal liquefaction is considered to be a promising technology for conversion of biomass and is a subject of a series of research studies and, judging by the available publications, the scope of research in this field is expanding currently. However, many significant problems remain unsolved. In particular, an active searched is being conducted for suitable strains that will ensure not only a high lipid yield—necessary to convert microalgae into biodiesel—but also higher biomass productivity and a higher biofuel yield; the chemical reactions that occur during the hydrothermal treatment are being studied; and the effect of significant process variables, such as temperature, heating rate, holdup time at the maximum temperature, biomass concentration in the water suspension, biochemical and elemental compositions of the microalgae, use of catalysts, etc., on the liquefaction processes is being studied. One of the urgent tasks is also the reduction of the nitrogen content in the resulting biofuel. Studies aimed at the development of a continuous process and rational heat-processing plants for thermal microalgal conversion are being conducted to increase the energy efficiency of the HTL process, in particular, to provide the heat recovery and separation of the end product., Pleiades Publishing, Inc.

Direct electron transfer of glucose oxidase in carbon paper for biofuel cells and biosensors
Advanced bioelectronic devices, such as high-power biofuel cells (BFCs) and highly efficient biosensors, are limited by the difficulty of electron transfer between enzymes and electrodes. Previously reported methods for achieving electron transfer from enzymes to electrodes have relied on the use of complex biomolecule immobilization procedures, complicated matrix materials, or enzyme engineering, resulting in potential relative toxicity, high cost, as well as limited stability. Here, we report a facile method for the rapid preparation of a glucose oxidase (GOx) anode with direct electron transfer (DET) for glucose BFCs and biosensors. GOx is directly incorporated into pretreated carbon paper (CP) by adjusting the pH of the incubation medium during the immobilization process. Eexcellent bioelectrocatalytic activity is obtained when GOx is incorporated into CP near the pI of GOx. The electron transfer rate constant (ks) and the apparent Michaelis-Menten constant (kMapp) are estimated to be 12.08 ± 1.0 s-1 and 0.13 ± 0.01 mM, respectively. These findings may be extended to the development of highly conductive nanomaterials and the immobilization of other enzymes or biomolecules, providing a promising platform for the development of BFCs, biosensors, and other bioelectrochemical devices. The Authors.

Egg shell waste as heterogeneous nanocatalyst for biodiesel production: Optimized by response surface methodology
Worldwide consumption of hen eggs results in availability of large amount of discarded egg waste particularly egg shells. In the present study, the waste shells were utilized for the synthesis of highly active heterogeneous calcium oxide (CaO) nanocatalyst to transesterify dry biomass into methyl esters (biodiesel). The CaO nanocatalyst was synthesied by calcination-hydration–dehydration technique and fully characterized by infrared spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscope (SEM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), brunauer−emmett−teller (BET) elemental and thermogravimetric analysis. TEM image showed that the nano catalyst had spherical shape with average particle size of 75 nm. BET analysis indicated that the catalyst specific surface area was 16.4 m2 g-1 with average pore diameter of 5.07 nm. The effect of nano CaO catalyst was investigated by direct transesterification of dry biomass into biodiesel along with other reaction parameters such as catalyst ratio, reaction time and stirring rate. The impact of the transesterification reaction parameters and microalgal biodiesel yield were analyzed by response surface methodology based on a full factorial, central composite design. The significance of the predicted mode was verified and 86.41% microalgal biodiesel yield was reported at optimal parameter conditions 1.7% (w/w), catalyst ratio, 3.6 h reaction time and stirring rate of 140.6 rpm. The biodiesel conversion was determined by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). The fuel properties of prepared biodiesel were found to be highly comply with the biodiesel standard ASTMD6751 and EN14214. 

Promotional effect of transition metal doping on the properties of KF/CaO catalyst for biodiesel synthesis
A series of heterogeneous KF/CaO catalysts modified with transition metals (lanthanum, cerium, and zirconium) were prepared via wet impregnation method and applied to the trsansesterification process of waste cooking oil (WCO) as feedstock with methanol to biodiesel production. The structure, performance of the solid catalysts was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), temperature programmed desorption of CO2 (CO2-TPD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). The effect of methanol/oil molar ratio, 1reaction time, reaction temperature, catalyst amount, and stability was investigated. The results showed that 10 wt% of lanthanum, cerium, and zirconium improved the catalytic activity of KF/CaO catalyst. The maximum catalytic activity using the lanthanum doping of 10wt% on KF/CaO catalyst was reached 98.7% under the optimal reaction condition of methanol/oil molar ratio of 12:1, reaction for 1 h at reaction temperature of 65°C, and 4% (wt/wt oil) catalyst amount. In addition, the FAME yield of KF/CaO/La catalyst remained higher than 95% after 10 cycles. The promotional effect of lanthanum doping could be attributed to the enhancement of the basicity strength of KF/CaO catalyst and block the leach of Ca2+ in the transesterification reaction. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Palladium Nanoparticles Encaged in a Nitrogen-Rich Porous Organic Polymer: Constructing a Promising Robust Nanoarchitecture for Catalytic Biofuel Upgrading
Robust nanoarchitectures based on surfactant-free ultrafine Pd nanoparticles (NPs) (2.7–8.2±0.5 nm) have been developed by using the incipient wetness impregnation method with subsequent reduction of PdII species encaged in the 1,3,5-triazine-functionalized nitrogen-rich porous organic polymer (POP) by employing NaBH4, HCHO, and H2 reduction routes. The Pd-POP materials prepared by the three different synthetic methods consist of virtually identical chemical compositions but have different physical and texture properties. Strong metal–support interactions, the nanoconfinement effect of POP, and the homogeneous distribution of Pd NPs have been investigated by performing 13C cross-polarization (CP) solid-state magic angle spinning (MAS) NMR, FTIR, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), along with wide-angle powder XRD, N2 physisorption, high-resolution (HR)-TEM, high angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping spectroscopic studies. The resulting Pd-POP based materials exhibit highly efficient catalytic performance with superior stability in promoting biomass refining (hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin, a typical compound of lignin-derived bio-oil). Outstanding catalytic performance (≈98 % conversion of vanillin with exclusive selectivity for hydrogenolysis product 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol) has been achieved over the newly designed Pd-POP catalyst under the optimized reaction conditions (140 °C, 10 bar H2 pressure), affording a turnover frequency (TOF) value of 8.51 h−1 and no significant drop in catalytic activity with desired product selectivity has been noticed for ten successive catalytic cycles, demonstrating the excellent stability and reproducibility of this catalyst system. A size- and location-dependent catalytic performance for the Pd NPs with small size (1.31±0.36 and 2.71±0.25 nm) has been investigated in vanillin hydrodeoxygenation reaction with our newly designed Pd-POP catalysts. The presence of well-dispersed electron-rich metallic Pd sites and highly rigid cross-linked amine-functionalized POP framework with high surface area is thought to be responsible for the high catalytic activity and improvement in catalyst stability. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Catalytic Cracking of Triglycerides on α-FeOOH Nanoparticles
Nanoparticles of α-FeOOH with diameter 9.0 ± 0.8 nm catalyze the cracking of vegetable oil triglycerides to give motor fuel components in the temperature range 300-450 °C. The greatest amount of normal alkanes and least amount of oxygen-containing compounds are found in the liquid product mixture at 400 °C. The major products are components of the gasoline and diesel fractions., Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

Catalytic liquefaction of pine sawdust for biofuel development on bifunctional Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst in supercritical ethanol
Catalytic liquefaction can effectively convert solid biomass into liquid bio-crude that could be upgraded to advanced biofuel, but the exploration of green and efficient catalysts remain a challenge. In this study, bifunctional Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts were firstly combined with supercritical ethanol to produce bio-crude in pine sawdust catalytic liquefaction. The catalysts were characterized by BET, NH3-TPD, XRD and TEM. The effects of Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts with different Zn loading ratios on the yield and quality of bio-crude and gas were investigated. The results showed that Zn/HZSM-5 and HZSM-5 catalysts improved the yields of bio-crude compared to no catalyst treatment. The use of HZSM-5 based catalysts reduced the contents of oxygenated compounds including acids, ketones, phenols and alcohols in bio-crude products. Hydrocarbons content of the bio-crudes produced by HZSM-5 based catalysts increased compared to bio-crude produced by no catalyst treatment. Compared to HZSM-5 catalyst, Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts exhibited better catalyst performance to improve bio-crude quality due to the additional decarbonylation, decarboxylation and dehydrogenation reactions induced by Zn loading. 15%Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst resulted in the highest yields of bio-crude at 59.09 wt.%, and 10%Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst produced bio-crude with the highest hydrocarbons content at 15.03%. The four stages of mechanism for biomass liquefaction reactions on Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts in supercritical ethanol was proposed. Elsevier B.V.

Uniform ordered mesoporous ZnCo2O4 nanospheres for super-sensitive enzyme-free H2O2 biosensing and glucose biofuel cell applications
Uniform, ordered mesoporous ZnCo2O4 (meso-ZnCo2O4) nanospheres were successfully synthesized using a sacrificing template method. The meso-ZnCo2O4 nanospheres were used for the first time for H2O2 biosensing and in glucose biofuel cells (GBFCs) as an enzyme mimic. The meso-ZnCo2O4 nanospheres not only exhibited excellent catalytic performance in the H2O2 sensor, achieving a high sensitivity (658.92 μA·mM–1·cm–2) and low detection limit (0.3 nM at signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) = 3), but also performed as an excellent cathode material in GBFCs, resulting in an open circuit voltage of 0.83 V, maximum power density of 0.32 mW·cm–2, and limiting current density of 1.32 mA·cm–2. The preeminent catalytic abilities to H2O2 and glucose may be associated with the large specific surface area of the mesoporous structure in addition to the intrinsic catalytic activity of ZnCo2O4. These significant findings provide a successful basis for developing methods for the supersensitive detection of H2O2 and enriching catalytic materials for biofuel cells. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]., Tsinghua University Press and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.

Physicochemical effect of Pt nanoparticles/Γ-Al2O3 on the oleic acid hydrodeoxygenation to biofuel
Pt/γ-Al2O3 materials with different metal loading were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation method and tested as catalysts for hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) at 320 and 340°C with 4 and 5 h of reaction time. Oleic acid was used as model molecule in HDO process for biodiesel production, since this acid is in high proportion in waste vegetable oils used in food and agro-industrial processes. Increasing the Pt-nanoparticles (Pt-NPs) content influences on obtaining higher yields of n-C17 at optimal conditions of 335°C for 4.86 h of reaction and 4 nm of nanoparticle size, statistically determined. Yields of alkanes were theoretically optimized and using regression models for obtaining response surfaces with size (S) and distribution (V) of Pt-NPs as additional factors to temperature and reaction time. Interestingly, The Pt-nanoparticles parameters had a higher interaction with the rest of the other parameters for the n-C17 yield, suggested by a statistical P value less than 0.05. American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog, 36: 1224–1233, 2017. American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog

Support Induced Control of Surface Composition in Cu-Ni/TiO2 Catalysts Enables High Yield Co-Conversion of HMF and Furfural to Methylated Furans
5-(Hydroxymethyl)furfural (HMF) and furfural (FF) have been identified as valuable biomass-derived fuel precursors suitable for catalytic hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) to produce high octane fuel additives such dimethyl furan (DMF) and methyl furan (MF), respectively. In order to realize economically viable production of DMF and MF from biomass, catalytic processes with high yields, low catalyst costs, and process simplicity are needed. Here, we demonstrate simultaneous coprocessing of HMF and FF over Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalysts, achieving 87.5% yield of DMF from HMF and 88.5% yield of MF from FF in a one pot reaction. The Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalyst exhibited improved stability and regeneration compared to Cu/TiO2 and Cu/Al2O3 catalysts for FF HDO, with a ∼7% loss in FF conversion over four sequential recycles, compared to a ∼50% loss in FF conversion for Cu/Al2O3 and a ∼30% loss in conversion for Cu/TiO2. Characterization of the Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalyst by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy, and H2-temperature-programmed reduction and comparison to monometallic Cu and Ni on Al2O3 and TiO2 and bimetallic Cu-Ni/Al2O3 catalysts suggest that the unique reactivity and stability of Cu-Ni/TiO2 derives from support-induced metal segregation in which Cu is selectively enriched at the catalyst surface, while Ni is enriched at the TiO2 interface. These results demonstrate that Cu-Ni/TiO2 catalysts promise to be a system capable of integrating directly with a combined HMF and FF product stream from biomass processing to realize lower cost production of liquid fuels from biomass. American Chemical Society.

Changing trends in microalgal energy production-review of conventional and emerging approaches
The depletion of fossil fuel for energy production is one of the major problems being faced worldwide. As an alternative to fossil fuels, first and second generation biofuel was developed from corn, grains and lignocellulosic agricultural residues. These generations are inefficient in achieving the desired rate of biofuel production, climate change mitigation and economic growth. Therefore, third generation biofuel specifically derived from microalgae have proved to be a promising unconventional energy source. Microalgae are microscopic organisms that grow in salt or fresh water and have been used for producing metabolites, cosmetics and for energy production. The conventional approaches used for biofuel production include pyrolysis, gasification, direct combustion and thermomechanical liquefaction. The search for biological and eco-friendly approaches led to the emergence of Microbial Fuel Cell (MFC), which provide a new solution to energy crisis. Integration of photosynthetic organisms such as microalgae into MFC resulted in a new approach i.e. Microbial Solar Cell, which can convert solar energy into electrical energy via photosynthesis. Microbial solar cells have broad range application in wastewater treatment, biodiesel processing and intermediate metabolite production.

Synthesis and use of a catalyst in the production of biodiesel from Pongamia pinnata seed oil with dimethyl carbonate
The preparation of sodium methoxide-treated algae catalysts and their activity in the transesterification of Pongamia pinnata seed oil by dimethyl carbonate were investigated. We also investigated the effect of the sodium methoxide-treated algae catalyst on the biodiesel yield. The development of sodium methoxide-treated algae catalysts can overcome most problems associated with dissolution in dimethyl carbonate. The products were analyzed using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy to identify the fatty acid methyl esters in the biodiesel produced. The molar ratio of Pongamia pinnata seed oil to dimethyl carbonate in transesterification in the presence of the sodium methoxide-treated algae catalyst was observed to play a substantial role in this study, wherein the Pongamia pinnata seed oil conversion increased with increasing catalyst concentration. The highest percent conversion rate was 97%. With intense research focus and development, an ideal catalyst can indeed be developed for optimal biodiesel production that is both economically feasible and environmentally benign. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

One-Pot Process for Hydrodeoxygenation of Lignin to Alkanes Using Ru-Based Bimetallic and Bifunctional Catalysts Supported on Zeolite Y
The synthesis of high-efficiency and low-cost catalysts for hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of waste lignin to advanced biofuels is crucial for enhancing current biorefinery processes. Inexpensive transition metals, including Fe, Ni, Cu, and Zn, were severally co-loaded with Ru on HY zeolite to form bimetallic and bifunctional catalysts. These catalysts were subsequently tested for HDO conversion of softwood lignin and several lignin model compounds. Results indicated that the inexpensive earth-abundant metals could modulate the hydrogenolysis activity of Ru and decrease the yield of low-molecular-weight gaseous products. Among these catalysts, Ru-Cu/HY showed the best HDO performance, affording the highest selectivity to hydrocarbon products. The improved catalytic performance of Ru-Cu/HY was probably a result of the following three factors: (1) high total and strong acid sites, (2) good dispersion of metal species and limited segregation, and (3) high adsorption capacity for polar fractions, including hydroxyl groups and ether bonds. Moreover, all bifunctional catalysts proved to be superior over the combination catalysts of Ru/Al2O3 and HY zeolite. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Cu (II)-β-CD as Water-Loving Catalyst for One-Pot Synthesis of Triazoles and Biofuels Intermediate at Room Temperature without Any Other Additive
Use water as solvent for the organic synthesis a great choice because it is economical, reduces waste and avoids potentially hazardous reagents versus the conventional solvents. This account presents the Cu(II)-β-CD as water soluble green catalyst for the one-pot conversion benzyl halide to benzyl azide and 1,2,3-trizoles at room temperature and very short reaction time (15-70 min). Products are separated without any workup, simple by filtration, with >99 % selectivity and purity. As-synthesized material was characterized by, HR-TEM, XPS, FESEM, FT-IR, TGA and XRD to understand its structural properties as well as attachment of copper by host-guest interaction. This catalyst can also show effectiveness for the condensed ketone and aldehydes moiety, which produce biofuels intermediate. The recyclability of this catalytic system was tested up to five cycles and only a very slight loss of catalytic activity was detected. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Effect of adding brewery wastewater to pulp and paper mill effluent to enhance the photofermentation process: wastewater characteristics, biohydrogen production, overall performance, and kinetic modeling
Although a significant amount of brewery wastewater (BW) is generated during beer production, the nutrients in the BW could be reused as a potential bio-resource for biohydrogen production. Therefore, improvements in photofermentative biohydrogen production due to a combination of BW and pulp and paper mill effluent (PPME) as a mixed production medium were investigated comprehensively in this study. The experimental results showed that both the biohydrogen yield and the chemical oxygen demand removal were improved through the combination of BW and PPME. The best biohydrogen yield of 0.69 mol H2/L medium was obtained using the combination of 10 % BW + 90 % PPME (10B90P), while the reuse of the wastewater alone (100 % BW and 100 % PPME) resulted in 42.3 and 44.0 % less biohydrogen yields than the highest yield, respectively. The greatest light efficiency was 1.97 % and was also achieved using the combination of both wastewaters at 10B90P. This study revealed the potential of reusing and combining two different effluents together, in which the combination of BW and PPME improved the nutrients and light penetration into the mixed production medium., Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.

Porous Ti/Zr Microspheres for Efficient Transfer Hydrogenation of Biobased Ethyl Levulinate to -Valerolactone
-Valerolactone (GVL) is one of the versatile platform molecules and biofuel additives derived from the lignocellulosic biomass. Herein, the efficient synthesis of GVL from biobased ethyl levulinate (EL) using alcohol as both H-donor and solvent without an external hydrogen source has been achieved over porous Ti/Zr microspheres. The catalysts (TixZry) with different Ti/Zr molar ratios were synthesized using hexadecylamine (HDA) as a structure-directing agent via a sol-gel process combined with solvothermal treatment and characterized by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, thermal gravimetric analysis, NH3/CO2-TPD, N2 adsorption-desorption, and pyridine-IR. A high GVL yield of 90.1% at 100% EL conversion was obtained at 180 °C for 6 h over Ti2Zr8 in 2-propanol. The microspheric and porous structure, enhanced surface areas, and acid/base contents by the proper introduction of Ti species into Zr oxide were demonstrated to be responsible for the pronounced performance. The microspheric Ti2Zr8 porous catalyst could be reused at least six times with no decrease in catalytic activity. American Chemical Society.

Role of Surface Cooperative Effect in Copper Catalysts toward Highly Selective Synthesis of Valeric Biofuels
Currently, the catalytic conversion of biomass-derived compounds into biofuels is of great significance in terms of environmental protection and sustainable development. Among them, valeric esters derived from γ-valerolactone (GVL) are regarded as one of the most promising alternatives to fossil fuels. Herein, the highly efficient one-pot transformation of GVL to produce a series of valeric esters was successfully achieved over novel ZrO2-incorporated ZnAl2O4-composite-supported Cu-based catalysts. An extensive investigation gave clear evidence that the incorporation of ZrO2 into composites could lead to the enhanced metal dispersion and surface acidity. Especially, the catalyst with a Zr/Zn mass ratio of 0.2 exhibited the best selectivity of 99% in the transformation of GVL into pentyl valerate to date, together with a comparable conversion of 91% with respect to the Cu-based catalyst previously reported. The superior catalytic performance was attributable to the surface cooperation effect between highly dispersed active copper species and abundant surface acid sites. Especially, different surface types of acidic sites on catalysts could induce the reaction to efficiently proceed in different paths. The present work provides a valuable approach for precious metal substitution research in future large-scale biorefineries. American Chemical Society.

Industrial waste derived CaO-based catalysts for upgrading volatiles during pyrolysis of Jatropha residues
Lime mud, the industrial waste from pulp and paper mills, was used as a raw material for preparing calcium oxide (CaO)-based catalysts. Lime mud was heated at 1000 °C to transform it into active CaO and then modified by adding 5 wt% Fe or Ni (as nitrates) using the wet impregnation method and calcining to form the Fe/CaO and Ni/CaO catalysts. The fast pyrolysis of Jatropha residues to bio-oil with no catalyst and with the derived CaO, Fe/CaO and Ni/CaO catalysts was studied using an analytical pyrolysis-GC/MS at 500 °C at a biomass: catalyst ratio of 1:1 and 1:5. A Jatropha residue: catalyst ratio of 1:5 was more optimal for enhancing aliphatic hydrocarbon production and decreasing the amount of oxygenated and N-containing compounds. The presence of the CaO catalyst completely eliminated the undesirable acids and sugars in the bio-oil, significantly decreased N-containing compounds and considerably promoted the formation of aliphatic hydrocarbons up to 37.3%. The Fe/CaO and Ni/CaO catalysts further increased the selectivity for aliphatic hydrocarbons, and reduced aldehyde formation compared to with CaO, with Ni/CaO being the best catalyst for hydrocarbon selectivity (47.5%). Overall, these CaO-based catalysts derived from industrial lime mud waste can be used for catalytic fast pyrolysis applications.

Sono-sulfated zirconia nanocatalyst supported on MCM-41 for biodiesel production from sunflower oil: Influence of ultrasound irradiation power on catalytic properties and performance
Sono-sulfated zirconia nanocatalyst supported on MCM-41 was prepared by an ultrasound-assisted impregnation/hydrothermal hybrid method. The effect of irradiation power was studied by changing power of the sonication (30, 60 and 90 W) during the synthesis which led to different physiochemical properties of the nanocatalyst. XRD, FESEM, EDX, FTIR and BET analyses exhibited smaller particles with higher surface area and less population of particle aggregates at highly irradiated nanocatalysts. The nanocatalyst irradiated at 90 W for 30 min showed a very narrow particle size distribution. About 59% of nanocatalyst particles were in the range of 1–30 nm. The performance of investigated nanocatalysts in biodiesel production from sunflower oil showed ultrasound-assisted synthesized nanocatalysts had higher conversion in comparison to non-sonicated catalyst. Biodiesel conversion in catalyst with 90 W and 30 min ultrasonic irradiation exceeded 96.9% under constant condition at 60 °C reaction temperature, methanol/oil molar ratio of 9:1 and 5% catalyst concentration. After five cycles, biodiesel conversion of non-sonicated catalyst was well maintained in a high extend (71.4%) while biodiesel conversion of non-sonicated catalyst barely reached to 43.5%. Among sonicated nanocatalysts, with increasing power of irradiation, the nanocatalyst represented higher conversion and reusability. Elsevier B.V.

Kinetically controlled synthesis of nanoporous Au and its enhanced electrocatalytic activity for glucose-based biofuel cells
Nanoporous gold (NPG) structures, which possess abundant high-index facets, kinks, and steps, have been demonstrated as effective catalysts for the glucose electrooxidation in biofuel cells. Herein, we designed surface-clean NPG structures with high-index facets by a trisodium citrate (Na3Cit) self-initiated reduction of chloroauric acid (HAuCl4) in a water-ice bath followed by a kinetically controlled self-assembly manner. This strategy breaks through the traditional trisodium citrate thermal-reducing chloroauric acid approach where solutions are required to heat to a certain temperature for the reaction to initiate. However, herein, the surface-clean NPG structures yielded highly enhanced catalytic activity in glucose electrooxidation with approximately 9 A cm−2 mg−1 current density, which is over 20 times higher than that of Au nanoparticles devised by Turkevich (Turkevich-Au NPs) under the same conditions. This remarkable electrocatalytic activity could be ascribed to the large electrochemically active surface area, clean surface, and high-index facets or highly active sites of the porous structure. The employment of the surface-clean NPG with high-index facets for glucose electrooxidation promises a substantial improvement in the current biofuel cell technology and indicates the potential of biofuel cells in practical applications. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Carbon-Nanotube-Supported Bio-Inspired Nickel Catalyst and Its Integration in Hybrid Hydrogen/Air Fuel Cells
A biomimetic nickel bis-diphosphine complex incorporating the amino acid arginine in the outer coordination sphere was immobilized on modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) through electrostatic interactions. The functionalized redox nanomaterial exhibits reversible electrocatalytic activity for the H2/2 H+interconversion from pH 0 to 9, with catalytic preference for H2oxidation at all pH values. The high activity of the complex over a wide pH range allows us to integrate this bio-inspired nanomaterial either in an enzymatic fuel cell together with a multicopper oxidase at the cathode, or in a proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) using Pt/C at the cathode. The Ni-based PEMFC reaches 14 mW cm−2, only six-times-less as compared to full-Pt conventional PEMFC. The Pt-free enzyme-based fuel cell delivers ≈2 mW cm−2, a new efficiency record for a hydrogen biofuel cell with base metal catalysts. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Palladium Nanoparticles Supported on a Metal–Organic Framework-Partially Reduced Graphene Oxide Hybrid for the Catalytic Hydrodeoxygenation of Vanillin as a Model for Biofuel Upgrade Reactions
In this work we report a new strategy to enhance the catalytic activity and selectivity in heterogeneous catalysis by using a hybrid support that consists of metal–organic framework (MOF) crystals and partially reduced graphene oxide (PRGO) nanosheets to disperse metal nanoparticle catalysts efficiently. We report the development of a Pd nanocatalyst incorporated within a 3 D hierarchical nanocomposite that consists of a Ce-based MOF wrapped with thin PRGO nanosheets, Pd/PRGO/Ce-MOF, as a heterogeneous tandem catalyst for the hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin, a common component in lignin-derived bio-oil, under mild reaction conditions. Our results demonstrate that the PRGO/Ce-MOF hybrid scaffold is an excellent support for Pd nanoparticles for the transformation of vanillin into 2-methoxy-4-methyl phenol, an important high-value phenol compound that can be used directly in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. The high catalytic performance of the Pd/PRGO/Ce-MOF catalyst is attributed to the unique characteristics of the incorporation of the PRGO support that leads not only to a stable and uniform dispersion of the Pd nanoparticles but also to the presence of acidic active sites that promote the hydrogenolysis reaction. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Rubber seed oil as potential non-edible feedstock for biodiesel production using heterogeneous catalyst in Thailand
This research present an alternative raw material of rubber seed which is non-edible crops as a source to produce oil for biodiesel production in Thailand. The rubber seed powder was extracted with hexane at room temperature to give rubber seed oil with the yield of 24 wt%. The composition and key properties of the extracted oil were analyzed including fatty acid compositions, density, kinematic viscosity, flash point, water content and acid value. This high FFAs oil (5.20 wt%) was successfully transesterified by various heterogeneous catalysts such as CaO-based waste coral fragment, sodium metasilicate and CaO-based eggshell to biodiesel in high yield and high %FAME of >97% in single step. Thermal stability of biodiesel obtained from rubber seed oil was evaluated by using thermogravimetric analysis and compared with petrol-diesel fuels. The biodiesel obtained from rubber seed oil was examined and found to meet the EN 14214 standard for bio-auto fuel. 

Boosted sensor performance by surface modification of bifunctional rht-type metal-organic framework with nanosized electrochemically reduced graphene oxide
The surface and interface could be designed to enhance properties of electrocatalysts, and they are regarded as the key characteristics. This report describes surface modification of a bifunctional rht-type metal-organic framework (MOF, Cu-TDPAT) with nanosized electrochemically reduced graphene oxide (n-ERGO). The hybrid strategy results in a Cu-TDPAT-n-ERGO sensor with sensitive and selective response toward hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Compared with Cu-TDPAT, Cu-TDPAT-n-ERGO exhibits significantly enhanced electrocatalytic activities, highlighting the importance of n-ERGO in boosting their electrocatalytic activity. The sensor shows a wide linear detection range (4-12 000 μM), and the detection limit is 0.17 μM (S/N = 3) which is even lower than horseradish peroxidase or recently published noble metal nanomaterial based biosensors. Moreover, the sensor displays decent stability, excellent anti-interference performance, and applicability in human serum and urine samples. Such good sensing performance can be explained by the synergetic effect of bifunctional Cu-TDPAT (open metal sites and Lewis basic sites) and n-ERGO (excellent conductive property). It is expected that rht-type MOF-based composites can provide wider application potential for the construction of bioelectronics devices, biofuel cells, and biosensors. American Chemical Society.

Comprehensive analysis on potential factors of ethanol in Karanja biodiesel production and its kinetic studies
Biodiesel is the potential substitute to petroleum diesel due to its renewable nature as it is derived from bio-based feedstocks. Both methanol and ethanol have been used as alcohol in transesterification reaction, but as methanol is normally derived from fossil resources, biodiesel produced cannot be termed as completely renewable. As per policies of government of India, Ethanol is being promoted as potential biofuel because it is derived from biomass feedstock. Along with its direct use as biofuel, ethanol can also be incorporated as solvent alcohol in transesterification reaction. This work is an attempt to investigate the potential of ethanol in Karanja biodiesel production by analysis of kinetics of transesterification and its comparison with methanol transesterification. The result of experimental investigation shows that maximum yield of 88.7% and 77% was obtained for methanolysis and ethanolysis respectively at reaction temperature 60 °C, 9:1 molar ratio (alcohol to oil), 1.25 wt.% catalyst loading (KOH) and reaction time of 120 min. It was observed that rate constant and activation energy was 0.007105 min−1 and 20.19 kJ/mol for methanolysis respectively whereas same for ethanolysis was 0.006294 min−1 and 23.35 kJ/mol for ethanolysis. This shows that transesterification reaction proceeds slower when ethanol is used and more energy is required. Fuel properties of ethyl ester of Karanja Oil were found to be superior as compared to corresponding methyl ester. Still it is viable option from Indian prospective because Government of India is promoting the use of ethanol as a potential source of biofuel due to its renewable nature. 

Metal Free Acid Base Catalyst in the Selective Synthesis of 2,5-Diformylfuran from Hydroxymethylfurfural, Fructose, and Glucose
A novel metal free acid-base (CC-SO3H-NH2) catalyst was synthesized by introducing acidic -SO3H, -COOH, and silyloxypropylamine (-OSiCH2CH2CH2NH2) functional groups on glucose derived carbocatalyst. The catalyst was characterized by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) analyses. Superior catalytic activity was shown by the catalyst toward one-pot synthesis of DFF using molecular oxygen as the sole oxidant. The catalyst was found to be highly selective in synthesis of 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF) from hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), fructose, and, more importantly, from glucose with excellent yields. Moreover, the catalyst was easily recycled and reused without any significant loss in its catalytic activity. American Chemical Society.

Facile synthesis of bio-fuel from glycerol over zinc aluminium phosphate nanoplates
Herein, nanoplates of crystalline zinc aluminum phosphate exhibiting hexagonal and square planar morphology were successfully synthesized by adopting a novel and simple synthesis method; in this method, a single template, TPABr, was used in minute amounts and a shorter synthesis time of 24 h was required. The materials were characterized by X-ray diffraction, FTIR, SEM, XPS, TEM, thermal analysis, ICP, and ammonia TPD. The synthesis temperature governed the morphology of the nanoplates; however, irrespective of the shape of the nanoplates, the materials exhibited promising catalytic activity towards the production of bio-fuel solketal (2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane-4-methanol), a valuable bio-fuel, via acetalization of biodiesel waste glycerol under solvent-free reaction conditions. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Optimization of chitosan film-templated biocathode for enzymatic oxygen reduction in glucose hybrid biofuel cell
Effects of various configurations of a chitosan film-templated biocathode on a direct electron transfer (DET)-type reaction were investigated. Self-standing electrospun carbon nanofibers (ECFs) obtained from the carbonization of polymer fibers were used as supporting material. The biocathode was built from a layered disposition of bilirubin oxidase (BOD) and multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) entrapped in chitosan matrix onto the surface of the ECFs. When the enzyme layer was sandwiched between two layers of MWCNTs, significant improvement of DET oxygen reduction occurred at pH 7.0, which was ascribed to the presence of local negative charges and to π-π interactions favoring enzyme orientation. The electrode preparation is simple and results in an efficient biocathode with BOD non-specifically attached to the porous material. The limiting current density of the optimized biocathode was 1.2 mA cm−2. Combined to an abiotic Au60Pt40-modified anode, the resulting hybrid glucose biofuel cell delivered an open circuit voltage and a power density value of 0.9 V and 63 μW cm−2, respectively. The Electrochemical Society. All rights reserved.

Conversion of levulinic acid and alkyl levulinates into biofuels and high-value chemicals
Levulinic acid (LA) is one of the most important biomass-derived platform molecules and can be produced from both C5 and C6 carbohydrates via tandem dehydration and hydrolysis reactions. Since LA has different functional groups, it would be converted into various compounds by catalyzed reactions. During the past few decades, it has been proved that the conversion of biomass materials into biofuels and chemicals with LA as intermediate is feasible. Alkyl levulinates derived from LA have similar chemical properties to LA and are also used for the synthesis of LA derived molecules. Herein, this review focuses on the transformation of levulinic acid and alkyl levulinate into biofuels and high-valued chemicals, such as γ-valerolactone, 2-methyltetrahydrofurnan, valeric acid/alkyl valerates, 1,4-pentanediol and N-substituted pyrrolidinones. Different homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts are reviewed and compared. The ligands and additives exhibit a remarkable impact on the distribution of products in homogeneous catalytic systems. Moreover, the catalytic performances of heterogeneous catalytic systems are influenced by numerous factors, such as the size of the metal particles, surface morphology and acid density. In addition, in order to make this review more complete, the production of LA and alkyl levulinates is also included in the manuscript. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Highly efficient synchronized production of phenol and 2,5-dimethylfuran through a bimetallic Ni-Cu catalyzed dehydrogenation-hydrogenation coupling process without any external hydrogen and oxygen supply
2,5-Dimethylfuran (DMF) and phenol are considered as one of the new-fashioned liquid transportation biofuels and a key motif for industrial chemicals, respectively. Herein, a highly efficient vapor-phase dehydrogenation-hydrogenation coupling process over bimetallic Ni-Cu alloy nanocatalysts was established for the synchronized production of phenol and DMF with unprecedentedly high yields (>97%) from two cyclohexanol (CHL) and biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) substrates, without any external hydrogen and oxygen supply. Systematic characterization and catalytic experiments revealed that the production of phenol went through a consecutive triple-dehydrogenation process from CHL, while HMF was simultaneously hydrogenated into DMF using active hydrogen species generated from the dehydrogenation process. The bimetallic Ni-Cu alloy nanostructures derived from Ni-Cu-Al layered double hydroxide precursors and strong metal-support interactions play important roles in governing the present coupling process. An appropriate Ni-Cu alloy nanostructure could greatly facilitate the dehydrogenative aromatization of CHL, thus significantly improving the selectivities to both phenol and DMF. Such an unparalleled efficient, eco-friendly and versatile coupling process for the synchronized production of various substituted phenols and DMF makes it practically promising for large-scale industrial applications in terms of green chemistry and sustainable development. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Robust synthesis of green fuels from biomass-derived ethyl esters over a hierarchically core/shell-structured ZSM-5at(Co/SiO2) catalyst
A novel bifunctional ZSM-5at(Co/SiO2) material with a hierarchical core/shell structure was successfully prepared through a simple chemoselective interaction between the crystal surface silica species of zeolite and the external Co2+ source in basic media, which served as an excellent catalyst in the synthesis of green fuels from biomass-derived ethyl esters. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Heteropoly acid supported on silicalite–1 possesing intracrystalline nanovoids prepared using biomass – an efficient and recyclable catalyst for esterification of levulinic acid
Researchers prepared silicalite-1 containing intracrystalline nanovoids under hydrothermal synthesis conditions by adding corn stem pith powder into the zeolite synthesis gel. The nanovoids found to increase the external surface area of the zeolite and, when HPA was supported, it was loaded onto these nanovoids which improved dispersion of HPA and accesssiblity of acid sites. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and 31 31P- MAS NMR indicated interfacial bond formation between the silicalite-1 surface and HPA which would facilitate dispersion.

Hydrogenation of bio-oil into higher alcohols over Ru/Fe3O4-SiO2 catalysts
Liquid-phase hydrogenation of a solution of furfural, phenol and acetic acid has been studied in the 50–235 °C range over magnetic Ru/Fe3O4-SiO2 catalyst targeting the renewable production of second generation biofuels with minimum hydrogen consumption. Phenol was fully hydrogenated to cyclohexanol in the entire temperature range. Below 150 °C, furfural was mainly hydrogenated to tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol while hydrogenolysis to cyclopentanol was the main reaction pathway above 200 °C. The hydrogenation rate was doubled in an acidic solution (pH = 3) as compared to that at a pH 6. The spent catalyst was regenerated and reused in subsequent catalytic runs.

Enhancements in Biomass-to-Liquid processes: Gasification aiming at high hydrogen/carbon monoxide ratios for direct Fischer-Tropsch synthesis applications
The Fischer-Tropsch process is one of the possible routes to produce synthetic liquid fuels and chemicals employed on large scale in Gas-to-Liquid and Coal-to-Liquid processes, after appropriate transformation of respective fossil sources into syngas. However, syngas can be produced by biomass gasification as well. One of the main problems is the need to ensure high H2/CO ratio to allow the Fischer-Tropsch reaction to occur, operation commonly achieved by resorting to a Water-gas shift step. The present work reports an experimental study on biomass gasification. The aim was to set up a more efficient Biomass-to-Liquid process, which ensures a high H2/CO ratio syngas suitable for Fischer-Tropsch synthesis directly from biomass gasification. In this way, it is possible to remove the Water-gas shift section and consequently make biofuels production more attractive, reducing costs and plant complexity. Two types of biomass have been tested: softwood from forest residues and fast growing crops. Moreover, a bubbling fluidized bed reactor and an indirect gasifier with internal circulating fluidized bed have been used. Gasification tests have been conducted by running gasifiers with both inert and catalytic bed materials. The results have shown that, using the direct gasifier with catalytic bed and a proper configuration, H2/CO molar ratio of 2 can been obtained even at low temperature and low steam/biomass ratio, whereas this is not the case in the indirect one. However, tests suggest that an inverted configuration would make it possible to obtain values near two also with indirect gasifiers, resulting in a new interesting approach. 

Nanoparticles of Pd supported on bacterial biomass for hydroprocessing crude bio-oil
A process of much future-potential for upgrading of biofuels derived from hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is catalytic hydrotreatment. HTL bio-oil, manufactured from Chlorella microalgae in a reactor operating in continuous flow mode was processed via hydrotreatment using a bio-Pd/C catalyst. This catalyst comprises a bacterial biomass support decorated with Pd(0) nanoparticles. The hydrotreatment performance of commercial Pd/C catalyst and bio-Pd/C was compared in order to benchmark the latter catalyst preparation. Oil:catalyst ratio, time and temperature were investigated as three variables for optimization. Similar conversion was observed for both Pd/C (76% liquid yield, 4.2% O) and bio-Pd/C (77% liquid yield, 3.9% O) catalysts under equivalent conditions (4 h reaction time, 5 wt% Pd loading, 325 °C). The oxygen content was reduced by 65%, whilst the nitrogen content decreased by 35%, with a bio-oil:catalyst ratio of 20, at a temperature of 325 °C and reaction time of 4 h. The upgraded oil was further studied by elemental analysis, Simulated Distillation and GC–MS, in order to quantify the improvement in fuel properties. The fresh and spent catalysts were analyzed using elemental analysis, TGA and ICP-MS, showing that the bio-oil yield was augmented by conversion of the biomass component from bio-Pd/C. The Authors

Biodiesel production from canola oil using novel Li/TiO2 as a heterogeneous catalyst prepared via impregnation method
This study focused on the development of heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification process by implanting lithium onto TiO2 by wet impregnation process. A series of Li/TiO2 was prepared with different amounts of Li (20, 30, 40 wt %) and at different calcination temperatures (450, 600, 750). The Li/TiO2 catalysts were characterized by several spectroscopic and analytical techniques like XRD, FT-IR, BET, TG-DSC and FESEM. The XRD study revealed that the insertion of Li improved the catalyst efficiency without any alteration in structure of TiO2. Li/TiO2 catalysts with 30%w/w Li and calcined at 600 °C was found to be the most efficient with 98% transesterification yield. The best performance of catalyst was achieved with methanol to oil ratio of 24:1, 5 wt % of catalyst loading, at 55 °C reaction temperatures for 3 h of reaction time. The kinetic studies revealed the transesterification process was compatible with the zero order model. However the reusability decreases after every successive use. 

Assessment on performance, combustion and emission characteristics of diesel engine fuelled with corn stalk pyrolysis bio-oil/diesel emulsions with Ce0.7Zr0.3O2 nanoadditive
The performance, combustion and emission characteristics of diesel engine fuelled with corn stalk pyrolysis bio-oil/diesel emulsions (CBDEs) with Ce0.7Zr0.3O2 nanoadditive were studied. The density and viscosity of CBDEs increased by 10.7% and 159.3% with increasing bio-oil concentration up to 25%, respectively. Meanwhile, the calorific value was correspondingly reduced by 18.5%. Compared to diesel, a lower specific fuel consumption was achieved with the CBDE fuels at medium and high powers. This was attributed to micro-explosion, which resulted in more thorough splitting of fuel droplets caused by the instantaneous and intense vaporization of water, thereby significantly improving fuel vaporization and combustion process. In addition, the addition of Ce0.7Zr0.3O2 nanoparticles led to reduced ignition delay and rapid oxidation, thus resulting in more complete combustion. The specific fuel consumption of CBDEs first decreased and then increased in correlation to the increased bio-oil content, in which CBDEs with bio-oil proportion of 20% showed the lowest and had the highest fuel saving rate close to 8.4%. By comparison of diesel, the CBDEs with lower bio-oil proportion than 20% reduced CO, HC and smoke emission, which were decreased by reducing bio-oil content. Increasing bio-oil proportion led to the effective reduction of NOx emission. Elsevier B.V.

Life cycle cost and sensitivity analysis of reutealis trisperma as non-edible feedstock for future biodiesel production
The use of non-edible, second-generation feedstocks for the production of biodiesel has been an active area of research, due to its potential in replacing fossil diesel as well as its environmentally friendly qualities. Despite this, more needs to be done to remove the technical barriers associated with biodiesel production and usage, to increase its quality as well as to widen the choice of available feedstocks; so as to avoid over-dependence on limited sources. This paper assesses the feasibility of using a local plant, Reutealis trisperma, whose seeds contain a high percentage of oil of up to 51%, as one of the possible feedstocks. The techno-economic and sensitivity analysis of biodiesel production from Reutealis trisperma oil as well as implementation aspects and environmental effects of the biodiesel plant are discussed. Analysis indicates that the 50 kt Reutealis trisperma biodiesel production plant has a life cycle cost of approximately 710 million, yielding a payback period of 4.34 years. The unit cost of the biodiesel is calculated to be 0.69/L with the feedstock cost accounting for the bulk of the cost. The most important finding from this study is that the biodiesel from Reutealis trisperma oil can compete with fossil diesel, provided that appropriate policies of tax exemptions and subsidies can be put in place. To conclude, further studies on biodiesel production and its limitations are necessary before the use of biodiesel from Reutealis trisperma oil may be used as a fuel source to replace fossil diesel. by the authors.

Ratio-controlled synthesis of phyllosilicate-like materials as precursors for highly efficient catalysis of the formyl group
The design and development of heterogeneous catalysts is very critical for the synthesis of various chemicals and fuels derived from superfluous biomass. The synthesis of biofuel 2-methylfuran typically derives from the conversion of the formyl group of biomass-derived furfural, because this process is very valuable in terms of the amelioration and remission of the environment and energy crisis. Herein, we designed a series of bifunctional catalysts formed in line with the spatial restriction strategy by anchoring copper nanoparticles (Cu NPs) on phyllosilicate-like structures to enhance copper dispersion and provide properly assembled Lewis acid sites to promote the hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis of the formyl group in furfural, and first applied them to the conversion of the formyl group with high efficiency. However, the modulation of the Cu-Si molar ratio is extremely critical to the possible reduction of metal consumption, full exploitation of the prerequisite metal sites and great improvement of activity. In this work, the catalyst with a Cu-Si molar ratio (actual value = 0.33) lower than that of the industrial catalyst (theoretical value = 1.0) exhibited higher yields of the intermediate furfuryl alcohol (yield = 83.4%) and the desired product 2-methylfuran (yield = 95.5%). More importantly, with the continuous increase of the Cu-Si molar ratio, it is discovered that Cu dispersion regularly decreased and the size of the Cu NPs sequentially increased, and the change of assembled Lewis acid sites surprisingly kept pace with the integrity of the layered structure, as revealed by a series of detailed characterization studies. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Separate production of hydrogen and methane from biodiesel wastewater with added glycerin by two-stage anaerobic sequencing batch reactors (ASBR)
The objective of this study was to investigate hydrogen and methane production from biodiesel wastewater with added glycerin by using two-stage anaerobic sequencing batch reactors (ASBR) under 37 °C with a recycle ratio of the effluent from the methane ASBR unit-to-the feed flow rate of 1:1. Hydrogen ASBR unit was operated at a constant pH of 5.5 whereas the pH of methane ASBR unit was not controlled. Glycerin was added into biodiesel wastewater having 2330 mg/l COD to obtain a constant feed chemical oxygen demand (COD) of 45,000 m/l. At optimum COD loading rate 11.3 kg/m3d (based on feed COD load and methane ASBR volume), the system provided the highest overall hydrogen and methane production performance (75.15 ml H2/g glycerin removed) which was consistent with the maximum overall COD removal of 76.7% and the highest overall glycerin uptake of 90%. Most of added glycerin was converted to gaseous products with small amounts of organic acids and 1,3 propanediol. The low volumetric ratio of hydrogen ASBR unit-to-methane ASBR unit of 1:6 resulted in low hydrogen yields with high methane yields. Process performance of the two-stage ASBR system was limited by the inhibition of total volatile organic acids produced in both bioreactors. 

Upgrading pyrolysis bio-oil to hydrocarbon enriched biofuel over bifunctional Fe-Ni/HZSM-5 catalyst in supercritical methanol
Although hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is proven a promising process for upgrading pyrolysis bio-oil to hydrocarbon biofuel, catalyst efficiency remains a challenge. Integrating heterogeneous catalysts with supercritical liquid in a bio-oil HDO process was investigated in this study. Bifunctional Fe-Ni/HZSM-5 catalysts were firstly used to upgrade bio-oil to hydrocarbon biofuel in supercritical methanol. The loading of Fe and Ni did not change HZSM-5 crystalline structure, but BET surface area and total pore volume of Fe-Ni/HZSM-5 catalysts decreased significantly compared to HZSM-5 support. Physicochemical properties of biofuel produced by Fe and/or Ni loaded HZSM-5 catalysts such as water content, total acid number, viscosity and higher heating value improved in comparison with raw bio-oil. Bimetallic Fe-Ni/HZSM-5 catalysts were more effective for bio-oil HDO compared to monometallic Fe/HZSM-5 or Ni/HZSM-5 catalyst and this was attributed to the synergistic effect of Fe and Ni on HZSM-5 support. Fe-Ni(2)/HZSM-5 catalyst produced biofuel with the highest hydrocarbon content at 28.60%. Elsevier B.V.

Bimetallic Pd-Fe supported on Γ-Al2O3 catalyst used in the ring opening of 2-methylfuran to selective formation of alcohols
This work presents the hydrogenation of 2-methylfuran (2-MF) in gaseous fluid phase into a catalytic reactor in order to obtain products with good properties to be used as biofuel. Bimetallic nanoparticles were obtained by impregnation on Al2O3 from the classic catalytic metals used in hydrogenation reactions such as platinum and palladium, combined with iron, to observe the catalytic activity and the selectivity to form interest biofuel compounds. Pt, Pd, Pt-Fe and Pd-Fe catalysts (with 0.5% wt. metal content) supported on alumina were reduced at 450 °C and tested. At 200 °C, Pt/Al2O3 and Pt-Fe/Al2O3 catalysts presented less than 19% conversion and the main formed product was pentene (90% selectivity). The Pd/Al2O3 catalyst conversion of 2-MF was of 5% at 200 °C, obtaining 1-pentanol and 1-butanol as products, together with a 28% of selectivity. The Pd-Fe/Al2O3 catalyst presented the highest conversion of 2-MF at 200 °C of 31%, the production of alcohols such as 1-pentanol, 2-pentanol and 1-butanol summed a selectivity of 39%. Since the Pd-Fe/Al2O3 catalyst presented the best performance, it was analyzed under high-resolution transmission electron microscopy technique. The HRTEM image revealed the presence of 5 nm size nanoparticles over the alumina, and Pd and Fe oxide nanoparticles were identified measuring the interplanar distances of exposed planes. A FePd3 nanoparticle alloy was also identified, which was the difference in having a greater hydrogenation efficiency for the 2-MF molecule. Elsevier B.V.

Catalytic upgrading of bio-products derived from pyrolysis of red macroalgae Gracilaria gracilis with a promising novel micro/mesoporous catalyst
Conversion of Gracilaria gracilis (G. gracilis) into bio-products was carried out via pyrolysis at different temperatures to determine its potential for phenol-rich bio-oil. Co-Mo supported on zeolites (HZSM-5), mesoporous (HMS) catalysts and their composites (ZH) were investigated and compared to each other on catalytic pyrolysis processes. In non-catalytic tests, the maximum weight percentage of bio-oil was 42 wt% at 500 °C and had the maximum amount of phenol (6.28 wt%). in the catalytic tests by ZH composites; the addition of zeolite content in the structure of composites significantly decreased total concentrations of acetic acid and formic acid from 9.56 to 8.12 wt% and slightly decreased phenol and furfural concentrations from 6.65 and 6.98 to 5.88 and 5.49 wt%, respectively. Furthermore, the best selectivity for hydrogen yield (6.08 mmol/g macroalgae) and lowest amount of acetic acid (5.4 wt%) was observed for CoMo/ZH-20 catalyst, that is synthesized by 20 wt% of zeolite. 

Denitrogenation of biocrude oil from algal biomass in high temperature water and formic acid mixture over H+ZSM-5 nanocatalyst
Due to the high protein content in algal species, these precursors require further catalytic removal of heteroatoms such as nitrogen, being upgraded to biofuels. In the current study, first, synthesis of Na+ZSM-5 nanocrystals with well-distribution in size was performed successfully with a novel technique in supercritical water. After converting to H+ZSM-5 type, it was applied for hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) of crude bio-oil, obtained from hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of chlorella sp. microalgae, in the presence of high temperature water and formic acid (HCOOH) mixture. The effects of reaction temperature (250–500 °C), formic acid as a source of in-situ hydrogen, and nano-catalyst (compared with industrial type) on nitrogen elimination and H/C ratio were investigated comprehensively. Compared with non-catalytic upgrading conditions, a substantial amount of nitrogen removal was obtained in the presence of nano-catalyst and formic acid with the maximum amount of 75 wt% at 400 °C in comparison with the macron-size industrial catalyst (54 wt%) at the same temperature. Due to more miscibility and consequently high degree of liquid fuel recovery (Yliq) with less coking as well as more HDN, T = 400 °C was chosen as the optimum temperature. Furthermore, H/C ratio of upgraded bio-oil, as an index of aromatization, had similar trend which indicates that in the presence of H+ZSM-5, higher temperature is more favorable to aromatization than cracking which makes HDN more difficult. In the absence of a catalyst, H/C ratio showed no substantial trend with temperature which demonstrates the significance of H+ZSM-5 catalyst for cracking. 

Hydrothermal liquefaction of rice straw with NiO nanocatalyst for bio-oil production
In this study, rice straw as an abundant agricultural waste was subjected to hydrothermal liquefaction for production of bio oil. The series of batch experiments were conducted at different temperatures (200 °C, 230 °C, 260 °C, 280 °C and 300 °C) for reaction time of 120 min with and without NiO nanocatalyst. The resulting bio-oil was categorized into light and heavy oils (LO and HO). In presence of nanocatalyst, the yields of LO and HO were maximized up to 13.2% and 17.2% at 300 °C, respectively. The carbon recovery of bio oil was significantly improved to 52.8% with 46.6% energy recovery in catalyzed reaction. Typical H/C and O/C atomic ratio of catalyzed HO are 1.2 and 0.3 respectively. The highest calorific values of LO and HO are 24.9 MJkg−1 and 31.9 MJkg−1 respectively. The tested nanocatalyst increased the yield of bio oil, but could not incite the elemental compositions and heating values of bio oil. The valuable chemical compounds in bio-oil had been analyzed by GC-MS. The LO samples mainly contained phenols, alcohols and ketones while HO consisted alkanes and organic acids. Additionally, aldehydes and other organic compounds were also found in products. 

Response surface methodology for the optimum production of biodiesel over Cr/Ca/Γ-Al2O3 catalyst: Catalytic performance and physicochemical studies
Attention continues to be focused on biomass as a very promising alternative source of renewable materials for energy production. This research focused on the use of a heterogeneous base alkaline earth metal oxide incorporated with a transition metal oxide catalyst supported on gamma alumina oxide varied with different temperatures, Cr loading and number of alumina coatings that make the biodiesel easily separated, low cost and environmental friendly. The physicochemical properties of Cr/Ca(10:90)/γ-Al2O3 catalyst calcined at 700 °C investigated by BET surface area and CO2-TPD indicated high surface area, 164.32 m2/g and higher basicity, 3.38 mmol/g, respectively. FESEM-EDX mapping showed the homogeneous distribution of each element presence in Cr/Ca(10:90)/γ-Al2O3 catalyst was well-distributed and indicated that the Cr/Ca has a higher dispersion on the surface of the γ-Al2O3. The response surface methodology was used to optimize the catalytic activity of Cr/Ca/γ-Al2O3 catalyst for transesterification of biodiesel from low-grade cooking oil. The most important variable for biodiesel yield was the calcination temperature of the catalyst followed by the Cr loading and the number of alumina coatings. The experimental value achieved with 93.10% conversion of biodiesel closely agreed with the predicted result from RSM and validated the findings of response surface optimization. 

Experimental assessment of electrolysis method in production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil using zeolite/chitosan catalyst with a focus on waste biorefinery
Used waste cooking oil (WCO) or frying oils are being considered as rich sources of economical feedstock for biodiesel production. To carry out the process of trans-esterification of WCO to methyl esters (biodiesel), zeolite/chitosan/KOH composite was used as solid heterogeneous catalysts. The composite was analyzed using Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), Scanning Electron Microscope coupled with Energy Dispersive X-ray (SEM-EDX) analysis, and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. It was found that the treatment of the natural zeolite (clinoptilolite zeolite) with KOH significantly decreased its silica content by desilication and increased its K+ content by formation of hydroxylpotaslite. Electrolysis method (EM) is used as an applicable technology for recovery of energy and resources during waste treatment. Theoretically, EM can convert any biodegradable waste into H2, O2, biofuels, as well as other by-products such as glycerol. However, the system efficacy can vary significantly under different circumstances. The conversion of biodiesel from WCO was obtained for 1 wt.% catalyst concentration and alcohol/oil ratio of 1:7 at 40 V in the presence of water as 2 wt.% of the whole solution in 3 h, produced 93% yield. The optimum conversion process was achieved as a result of using co-solvent as acetone. Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) and Viscosity characterization were used the assessing techniques for detection of WCO and biodiesel. 

Upgrading pyrolysis bio-oil to biofuel over bifunctional Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst in supercritical methanol
The role of catalyst is essential in processes of upgrading biomass pyrolysis bio-oil into hydrocarbon biofuel. While the majority of heterogeneous catalytic processes are conducted in the presence of gas (nearly ideal) or liquid phase, a growing number of processes are utilizing supercritical fluids (SCFs) as reaction media. Although hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is proven a promising process for pyrolysis bio-oil upgrading to hydrocarbon biofuel, catalyst efficiency remains a challenge. Integrating heterogeneous catalysts with SCFs in a bio-oil HDO process was investigated in this study. Bifunctional Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts were firstly used to upgrade bio-oil to biofuel in supercritical methanol. The loading of Co and Zn did not change HZSM-5 crystalline structure. Physicochemical properties of biofuel produced by Co and/or Zn loaded HZSM-5 catalysts such as water content, total acid number, viscosity and higher heating value improved. Bimetallic Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts showed enhanced reactions of decarboxylation and decarbonylation that resulted in higher yields of CO and CO2. Bimetallic Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts were more effective for bio-oil HDO than monometallic Co/HZSM-5 or Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst which was attributed to the synergistic effect of Co and Zn on HZSM-5 support. Bimetallic Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts increased biofuel yields and hydrocarbons contents in biofuels in comparison with monometallic Co/HZSM-5 and Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts. 5%Co15%Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst generated the highest biofuel yield at 22.13 wt.%, and 15%Co5%Zn/HZSM-5 catalyst produced biofuel with the highest hydrocarbons content at 35.33%. Hydrogenation and esterification are two dominant reactions in bio-oil HDO over Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts in supercritical methanol. The energy efficiency of biofuel product was 30.99–58.80% for Co-Zn/HZSM-5 catalysts. Co-Zn/HZSM-5 is a promising catalyst to produce biofuel with high quality in bio-oil HDO. 

Hydrophobic Pd nanocatalysts for one-pot and high-yield production of liquid furanic biofuels at low temperatures
Liquid furanic hydrocarbons, a class of biomass-based fuels and chemicals, are typically required to achieve moderate product selectivity and yield under harsh conditions (e.g., high temperature and H2 pressure) involving multi-step processes over different catalysts. In this study, a single-step catalytic process was developed for direct conversion of various saccharides to furanic biofuels such as 2,5-dimethylfuran and 2-methylfuran with high yields (&gt;95%) at 110–130 °C. The negatively charged hydride (H−) of readily available polymethylhydrosiloxane (PMHS) acting as green H-donor over hydrophobic Pd nanoparticles did not obstruct upstream reactions (e.g., hydrolysis, isomerization and dehydration) for the in situ formation of furanic aldehydes/alcohols from sugars, and could selectively facilitate the subsequent hydrodeoxygenation of carbonyl and hydroxyl groups other than the furanic ring in one pot, as clarified by deuterium-labeling study. Importantly, the unreduced Pd(II) nanocatalysts also exhibited comparable performance in the selective hydrodeoxygenation reaction. Moreover, the catalytic strategy was extended to various carboxides for quantitative production of corresponding furanic/aromatic hydrocarbons at room temperature that were more pronounced than previously reported results, and the optimal Pd/MIL-53(Al) coated with polydimethylsiloxane (Pd/MIL-53(Al)-P) was highly stable with little deactivation and Pd leaching for at least five consecutive cycles. Elsevier B.V.

Synergistic effects of pulse light emitting diode on growth rate, lipid content & its carbon chain of Nannochloropsis sp. In fatty acid methyl ester production
Third generation biofuels which is biodiesel from microalgae has its share of problems such as high cultivation costs, expensive dewatering and drying process, lipid extraction and transesterification. Nannochloropsis sp. was cultivated indoor using pulse light emitting diodes LED, blue LED and red LED. Nannochloropsis sp. was cultivated for 12 d under LED pulsed at a constant frequency between 5and 100 kHz with various duty cycles (5 - 50 %) by changing the resistance compared with red and blue LED. The number of cells, lipid content and FAME composition were determined using cell counting, Nile red method and gas chromatography respectively. Results revealed that the pulse LED compared to other wavelength LED have a significant effect in the number of cell (pulse: 3.39; blue 2.83; red: 2.63 x 107 cell/mL) and exhibited a consistent lipid production stability curve compared with red and blue LED. The biodiesel produced under the pulse LED has the following characteristics: degree of unsaturation (80.41), density (881 kg/m3), viscosity (3.96 mm2/s), cetane number (61.03), iodine value (97.76), cloud point (7.1 oC), pour point (0.86 oC), CFPP (6.52 oC) and HHV (41.28 MJ.kg). Copyright, AIDIC Servizi S.r.l..

Effective synthesis of biodiesel from Jatropha curcas oil using betaine assisted nanoparticle heterogeneous catalyst from eggshell of Gallus domesticus
The recovery of waste as feedstock away from organizational limitations corresponds to a prospective supplementary revenue stream for the organization. A novel waste eggshell of Gallus domesticus derived superbasic nanocatalyst was synthesized through betaine amphoteric surfactant-assisted decomposition, adsorption and precipitation processes. By varied the duration synthesis of gel mixture, the morphology transformation from liquid-solid interconnected macro-size particles to regular spheroidal nanoassemblies particles is detected. The surfactant at the liquid-solid interface facilitates the mono dispersion of nanoparticles by hindering growth of crystals. The average particle diameter of the produced superbasic nanocatalyst was in the range of 27–16 nm. The synthesized nanoparticle formation mechanism in the presence surfactant has also been addressed in this study. The catalytic activity of superbasic nanocatalyst was investigated for biodiesel production from crude Jatropha curcas oil (JCO) via glycerolysis and transesterification with methanol at atmospheric pressure. Artificial neural network (ANN) based on the genetic algorithm (GA) was applied for optimization of varied reaction parameters. It was observed that the reduction of acidity varied with varying reaction conditions. The highest fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield (97%) was obtained when the reaction was allowed to run at 60 °C for 300 min, while at 90 °C the maximal FAME yield of 98% was achieved after 120 min. The kinetic parameters of nanocatalyst were determined, and the reaction system followed pseudo first order kinetics. The results suggest that this two steps process using superbasic nanocatalyst affords a promising method to convert oils with high FFA level to biodiesel. 

Rapid biodiesel synthesis from waste pepper seeds without lipid isolation step
In situ transformation of lipid in waste pepper seeds into biodiesel (i.e., fatty acid methyl esters: FAMEs) via thermally-induced transmethylation on silica was mainly investigated in this study. This study reported that waste pepper seeds contained 26.9 wt% of lipid and that 94.1% of the total lipid in waste pepper seeds could be converted into biodiesel without lipid extraction step for only ∼1 min reaction time. This study also suggested that the optimal temperature for in situ transmethylation was identified as 390 °C. Moreover, comparison of in situ process via the conventional transmethylation catalyzed by H2SO4 showed that the introduced biodiesel conversion in this study had a higher tolerance against impurities, thereby being technically feasible. The in situ biodiesel production from other oil-bearing food wastes can be studied. 

Combustion performance of biocrude oil from solvolysis liquefaction of Chlorella pyrenoidosa by thermogravimetry–Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy
The kinetic behavior and evolution characteristics of gaseous products during the combustion of biocrude oil from solvolysis liquefaction of Chlorella pyrenoidosa were investigated by thermogravimetry–Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (TG–FTIR). The results indicated the biocrude oil obtained from different ethanol/water mixed ratio had obvious difference with each other. The ignition temperature of biocrude oil from ethanol–water co-solvent was lower than that from pure water solvent, which promoted the comprehensive combustion index. Especially, BO40 (biocrude oil obtained from 40% ethanol content) achieved the lowest ignition temperature (163.4 °C) and high comprehensive combustion index (1.24 × 10−06 min−2 °C−3). C[sbnd]H, C[dbnd]O, C[dbnd]C, CO2, CO and HCN were the main gaseous products. Compared to other biocrude oil samples, BO40 had high first peak intensity of C[sbnd]H, C[dbnd]O and C[dbnd]C, and low peak intensity of CO, which performed better combustion characteristic. 

Biodiesel production by catalytic esterification of oleic acid over copper (II)–alginate complexes
A systematic study on copper (II)-alginate beads as catalysts for the synthesis of biodiesel via esterification of oleic acid and methanol is here reported for the first time. The chemical structure and morphologies of these catalysts were fully characterized by XRD, FT-IR, and SEM. The copper (II)-alginate beads showed a tubular structure with entangled reticulation. In the presence of copper (II)-alginate catalyst, the biodiesel conversion of 71.8% was achieved from oleic acid with methanol under the most mild conditions (1/10 oleic acid to methanol molar ratio, 250 mg catalyst, 70°C for 3 h), optimized by single-factor experiments. The catalyst could be easily separated from the reaction mixture and stabilized for a certain time. This material can also catalyze other esterification of fatty acids with different carbon chain lengths, as well as the pretreatment of non-edible oils with high acid value. Our findings showed that the copper (II)- alginate is a suitable catalyst for esterification and would provide more choices for industrial application in the future. by Japan Oil Chemists’ Society.

Hydrocarbon bio-oil production from pyrolysis bio-oil using non-sulfide Ni-Zn/Al2O3 catalyst
Upgraded bio-oil can partly replace fossil fuels to reduce the environmental issues caused by the massive consumption of fossil fuels. Hydrodeoxygenation is a promising route for upgraded bio-oil production from pyrolysis bio-oil. Non-sulfide catalysts are effective in bio-oil hydrodeoxygenation due to low cost and high activity. Ni-Zn/Al2O3 catalysts were first used to selectively produce hydrocarbon upgraded bio-oil through bio-oil hydrodeoxygenation. Upgrading pine sawdust bio-oil to upgraded hydrocarbon bio-oil was performed using a series of Ni and/or Zn loaded Al2O3 catalysts. The crystalline structure of Al2O3 was maintained after Ni and/or Zn loading, but BET surface area and total pore volume of Ni-Zn/Al2O3 catalysts decreased significantly compared to Al2O3 support. Bimetallic Ni-Zn/Al2O3 catalysts were more effective than monometallic Ni/Al2O3 or Zn/Al2O3 catalyst. Bimetallic 15%Ni-5%Zn/Al2O3 catalyst generated the highest upgraded bio-oil yield at 44.64 wt% and produced the upgraded bio-oil with the highest hydrocarbon content at 50.12%. Physicochemical properties of upgraded bio-oils including heating value, water content and pH were significantly improved in comparison with raw bio-oil. The improved catalytic performance of bimetallic Ni-Zn/Al2O3 catalyst was associated with the synergistic effect of Ni and Zn on Al2O3 support.

Improved biomass and lipid production in Synechocystis sp. NN using industrial wastes and nano-catalyst coupled transesterification for biodiesel production
In this study, the improved biomass (1.6 folds) and lipid (1.3 folds) productivities in Synechocystis sp. NN using agro-industrial wastes supplementation through hybrid response surface methodology-genetic algorithm (RSM-GA) for cost-effective methodologies for biodiesel production was achieved. Besides, efficient harvesting in Synechocystis sp. NN was achieved by electroflocculation (flocculation efficiency 97.8 ± 1.2%) in 10 min when compared to other methods. Furthermore, different pretreatment methods were employed for lipid extraction and maximum lipid content of 19.3 ± 0.2% by Synechocystis sp. NN was attained by ultrasonication than microwave and liquid nitrogen assisted pretreatment methods. The highest FAME (fatty acid methyl ester) conversion of 36.5 ± 8.3 mg FAME/g biomass was obtained using titanium oxide as heterogeneous nano-catalyst coupled whole-cell transesterification based method. Conclusively, Synechocystis sp. NN may be used as a biodiesel feedstock and its fuel production can be enriched by hybrid RSM-GA and nano-catalyst technologies. 

Mechanism, kinetics and thermodynamics of carbon dioxide hydrogenation to methanol on Cu/ZnAl2O4 spinel-type heterogeneous catalysts
Heterogeneous catalytic hydrogenation of gaseous carbon dioxide to methanol is an important reduction reaction in chemical process engineering, renewable energy industry and emerging green chemistry, as it provides means to harness surplus electrical energy and convert a pollutant and emitted greenhouse gas into a useful building block and biofuel. On industrial operating scale, multifunctional copper/zinc catalysts on various supporting substrates (e.g. CZA with alumina) are most commonly used due to their high selectivity and conversion. In this work, post-Hartree–Fock and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were carried out to assess the thermodynamics and to elucidate the pathway leading to the formation of methanol from CO2on realistic spinel-type tri-metallic materials. Firstly, a commercial-like Cu/ZnO/Al2O3was synthesised via co-precipitation and characterised to obtain the active sites’ structure for modelling. Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area measurement, scanning/transmission electron microscopy (SEM and TEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) were performed. Subsequently, the Gibbs free energy, enthalpy, entropy and chemical equilibrium constants of the direct methanol synthesis and the competing reverse water–gas shift (RWGS) reaction at the temperatures of 25, 150, 200, 250 and 300 °C, and the pressures of 1, 20, 40, 60 and 100 bar were evaluated using ab initio quantum chemistry method CCSD(T)/aug-cc-pVQZ. To investigate kinetics, a mechanistic pathway scheme with all established intermediates was constructed, whereas physical/chemical adsorption/desorption energies, geometries, barriers and rates for adsorbate elementary steps were calculated using plane-wave DFT. Results demonstrate that the formate precursor route predominates as the respective transition state activation energies are lower and, thus CH3OH is proposed to form through HCOO, H2COO, H2COOH, CH2O and CH3O species. Elsevier B.V.

Multi-SO3H functionalized mesoporous polymeric acid catalyst for biodiesel production and fructose-to-biodiesel additive conversion
Novel and efficient multi-SO3H functionalized mesoporous polymeric solid acid (PD-En-SO3H) was synthesized from sulfonation of ethylenediamine (En)-functionalization of mesoporous polydivinylbenzene (PD). The catalyst was characterized by XPS, FT-IR, N2adsorption-desorption, TEM, SEM, TG and elemental analysis. Characterizations suggest that PD-En-SO3H possess abundant mesoporosity, high BET surface area (369.00 m2/g) and high acidity (2.10 mmol/g). The catalytic activity was investigated for biodiesel (BD) production by esterification of various free fatty acids (FFAs) and synthesis of levulinate esters (BD additive) from fructose. The effects of reaction conditions such as reaction temperature, reaction time, molar ratio of methanol to oil and catalyst amount on conversion of oleic acid were also explored. Interestingly, PD-En-SO3H showed excellent catalytic performance, which was more active than commercial Amberlyst 15 and Nafion NR50. Moreover, it could be reused for four times and still maintained high catalytic activity. 

Thermoliquefaction of palm oil fiber (Elaeis sp.) using supercritical ethanol
Thermoliquefaction of palm oil fiber was investigated using supercritical ethanol as solvent. A semi-continuous laboratory scale unit was developed to investigate the effects of temperature (300–500 °C), heating rate (10–30 °C.min−1) and cracking time (10–30 min) on the conversion of biomass in bio-oil. The main advantage of the proposed process is that a pure solvent is pumping through the reactor that contains the biomass, dispensing the use of biomass slurries. The yield of bio-oil ranged from 56% to 84%, depending on the experimental conditions. It was observed that an increase in working temperature led to an increase in the bio-oil production. Cracking time and heating rate variation had not shown a considerable effect on the conversion of biomass. The chemical profiles of bio-oil determined by GC/MS, indicate that at low temperature mainly sugar derivatives are produced, while at higher temperatures alcohols and phenolic are the majority compounds of the bio-oil. 

Microalgae biorefinery: High value products perspectives
Microalgae have received much interest as a biofuel feedstock in response to the uprising energy crisis, climate change and depletion of natural sources. Development of microalgal biofuels from microalgae does not satisfy the economic feasibility of overwhelming capital investments and operations. Hence, high-value co-products have been produced through the extraction of a fraction of algae to improve the economics of a microalgae biorefinery. Examples of these high-value products are pigments, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, vitamins and anti-oxidants, with applications in cosmetics, nutritional and pharmaceuticals industries. To promote the sustainability of this process, an innovative microalgae biorefinery structure is implemented through the production of multiple products in the form of high value products and biofuel. This review presents the current challenges in the extraction of high value products from microalgae and its integration in the biorefinery. The economic potential assessment of microalgae biorefinery was evaluated to highlight the feasibility of the process. 

Acidic mesostructured silica-carbon nanocomposite catalysts for biofuels and chemicals synthesis from sugars in alcoholic solutions
Sulfonated mesostructured silica-carbon nanocomposites with varying carbon content, acidic site density and porosity, obtained via the one-pot evaporation induced self-assembly (EISA) synthesis, were used here to convert sugars into useful chemicals and biofuel components in alcoholic solvent. The nanocomposites show a remarkable catalytic performance in ethanol, yielding up to 80%, predominantly ethyl levulinate, 5-ethoxymethylfurfural and 2-(diethoxymethyl)-5-(ethoxymethyl)furan. Fructose is the sugar substrate of choice, but the sulfonated composites are also able to convert di- and polymeric forms of fructose. Due to a lack of a glucose-to-fructose isomerization ability, the composites are unable to form the above products from the glucose resources (glucose and cellulose), ethyl glucoside being the dominant product from these feedstocks. The composite has a peculiar hierarchical pore architecture, which is stable on shelf in ambient for at least six years. While the mesoporosity facilitates entrance and fast transport (even of soluble poly-carbohydrates like inulin and cellulose polymers), the presence of microporosity is beneficial to attain fast sugar catalysis. Since the microporosity is associated with voids in the carbon phase (preferably pyrolyzed at 400 °C), composites with high carbon contents are preferred. Due to the fast transport, reactions with fructose in ethanol run in the chemical regime in the applied thermal conditions. Kinetic inspection of the reaction further clarifies the complex network of consequent and parallel reactions, demonstrating that HMF is the main precursor of humins, while the formation of EL directly from HMF should also be considered. While this observation corroborates the protective role of alcohols like ethanol, this work also concludes based on a series of reactions in different alcohols and water, that the presence of water plays a crucial role in the HMF-to-humins formation. While alcohols are known to stabilize HMF, the unprotected HMF is fairly stable in non-aqueous reaction circumstances like in tert-butanol solvent. Elsevier B.V.

Optimization and kinetics of biodiesel production from Mahua oil using manganese doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst
The production of biodiesel has rapid development in the recent years due to the benefits associated with its ability to minimize environmental pollution. Heterogeneous catalyst for production of biodiesel is a preferred route for its easier recovery and no demand for aqueous treatment. Transesterification of fatty acids into biodiesel using transition metal oxide gives higher conversion into their corresponding methyl esters in a short time. In the present work, manganese doped zinc oxide is used as a heterogeneous catalyst for the production of biodiesel from Mahua oil. The synthesized manganese doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst was characterized by XRD and SEM. The SEM and XRD results confirmed the hexagonal structure of the catalyst with the particle size of 24.18 nm. The 8% (w/v) catalyst concentration, 1:7% (v/v) of oil to methanol ratio, 50 min of reaction time and 50 °C of reaction temperature were found to be the optimum process condition for the maximum biodiesel yield of 97%. The presence of methyl esters in biodiesel was confirmed by FT-IR and GC-MS analysis. 

Carbon-coated Cu-Co bimetallic nanoparticles as selective and recyclable catalysts for production of biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran
Cu-Co bimetallic nanoparticles coated with carbon layers have been developed through direct heating treatment of bimetallic oxide precursors incipiently deposited with polyethene glycol. The as-synthesized nanocatalyst performs excellently in chemoselective hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-dimethylfuran. The Co-based catalysts exhibit higher performance than Cu-based catalysts. Cu-Co@C (Cu: Co = 1:3) shows the highest yield of 2,5-dimethylfuran (99.4%). Bimetallic nanocatalysts are detailedly characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The bimetallic nanoparticles are entrapped by carbon shells that can protect them from oxidation and deactivation. The catalytic activity and selectivity are kept constant in a six-run recycling test. The synergistic effect between two metal components is helpful to enhance catalytic performance. Elsevier B.V.

Emission analysis of the effect of doped nano-additives on biofuel in a diesel engine
This study was aimed at hybrid nanocatalysts to reduce emissions of a diesel engine fueled with nanocatalyst biodiesel blends. Biodiesel was produced from Prosopis juliflora oil by the transesterification process. The nanocatalyst having cerium oxide on multiwall carbon a nanotube was investigated using biodiesel blends at two concentrations (50 and 100 ppm).The results revealed that the high surface area of the nanoparticles and their proper distribution along with catalytic oxidation reaction resulted in significant overall reductions in the emission. More specifically, all pollutants, i.e., CO, HC, and NOx, and smoke opacity were reduced when compared to B20. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Production of biodiesel from castor oil using iron (II) doped zinc oxide nanocatalyst
The depletion of fossil fuels has caused the price of petroleum to rise remarkably and created need for alternative energy such as biodiesel. In the present study, the biodiesel was produced from castor oil using ferromagnetic zinc oxide nanocomposite as heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification reaction. Single phase of nanocatalyst were confirmed by X-Ray Diffraction analysis. The spherical shape of the aggregated nanocatalyst was observed in Scanning Electron Microscopy. Magnetic properties were analysed using vibrating sample magnetometer. Atomic Force Microscopic analysis revealed the larger surface area and roughness of nanocatalyst. The biodiesel yield of 91% (w/w) was obtained in 50 min at 55 °C with 14 wt % catalyst loading and 12:1 methanol/oil ratio and was confirmed by Gas chromatograph with Mass Spectrometer. The result showed that the iron (II) doped ZnO nanocatalyst is a promising catalyst for the production of biodiesel via heterogeneous catalytic transesterification under milder reaction conditions. 

Thermodynamic Analysis of Ethanol Synthesis from Glycerol by Two-Step Reactor Sequence
Conversion of biomass-derived syngas to ethanol has recently received significant attention because of strong demands for alternative and renewable energy sources; therefore glycerol has been suggested as promising raw material for obtaining ethanol in two consecutive steps. In this work, a thermodynamic study of glycerol dry reforming to produce syngas and subsequent ethanol production, as two-step process, was evaluated by means of the method of Gibbs free energy minimization. The effect of parameters such as reaction temperature, CO2/glycerol ratio (CGR), and pressure (P) on system performance was investigated. Reactions were simulated between 700-1,500 K and CGR range of 0-5, at 1 atm pressure. Calculations were performed with Aspen Plus 8.4, using Peng-Robinson thermodynamic method for properties estimation. Optimum conditions for syngas and ethanol production were determined, in order to prevent carbon deposition and methane formation. At temperatures above 900 K and CGR&lt;1, between 3 and 7 mole of H2/mole of glycerol can be generated. Results indicated that the addition of CO2 to the glycerol dry reforming reactor favored syngas and ethanol synthesis. The maximum yield obtained was 1 mole of ethanol per mole of glycerol at CGR≥2. Simulations indicate that temperature and CGR are essential factors for determining the process efficiency of the production of ethanol from syngas. These results suggest that glycerol wasted from biodiesel manufacturing should be useful as efficient raw material for syngas and ethanol production. by De Gruyter 2016.

Hydrothermal gasification of Cladophora glomerata macroalgae over its hydrochar as a catalyst for hydrogen-rich gas production
A tubular batch micro-reactor system was used for hydrothermal gasification (HTG) of Cladophora glomerata (C. glomerata) as green macroalgae found in the southern coast of the Caspian Sea, Iran. Non-catalytic tests were performed to determine the optimum condition for hydrogen production. Hydrochar, as a solid residue of non-catalytic HTG was characterized by BET, FESEM, and ICP-OES methods to determine its physiochemical properties. Surface area and pore volume of C. glomerata increased drastically after HTG. Also, the aqueous products were identified and quantified by GC–MS and GC-FID methods. Hydrochar was loaded to the reactor to determine its catalytic effect on HTG. HTG was promoted by inorganic compounds in the hydrochar and its porosity. The maximum hydrogen yield of 9.63 mmol/g was observed in the presence of algal hydrochar with the weight ratio of 0.4 to feedstock. Also, acids production was inhibited while phenol production was promoted in the presence of hydrochar. 

Biodiesel production from wet microalgae by using graphene oxide as solid acid catalyst
In order to produce biodiesel from lipids in wet microalgae with graphene oxide (GO) as solid acid catalyst, the effects on lipids conversion efficiencies of catalyst dosage, transesterification temperature, reaction time, methanol dosage and chloroform dosage were investigated. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and elemental analysis revealed that GO contained 0.997 mmol SO3H groups per gram and high amounts of OH groups. Scanning electron microscopy showed that wet microalgae cells were adsorbed on hydrophilic GO surfaces covered with many OH groups. Lipids extracted by chloroform from microalgal cells were transformed into fatty acids methyl esters (FAMEs) through transesterification catalyzed by the acid centers (SO3H groups) in GO catalysts. The lipids conversion efficiency into FAMEs was 95.1% in microwave-assisted transesterification reactions of 5 wt.% GO catalyst at 90 °C for 40 min. 

Catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae using nanocatalyst
Due to exhaustibility of fossil fuels and their adverse effects on the environment, bio-oil has been considered as an alternative energy source for fuel applications. Currently, there are two main processes for bio-oil production: pyrolysis and hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL). The hydrothermal liquefaction is defined as biomass-to-liquid conversion route carried out in the hot compressed water with or without the presence of a catalyst. The major concern in HTL is the high pressure of the process which results in high capital cost of equipment. Thus, the process pressure and temperature should be reduced, but at a lower temperature, bio-oil yield is not high enough to make HTL an economical process for sustainable fuel production. In this research, we investigated the applicability of a nanocatalyst (nano-Ni/SiO2), an acid catalyst (synthesized zeolite), and an alkali catalyst (Na2CO3) to increase the bio-oil yield at low temperatures (210 °C, 230 °C, 250 °C). The major result of this work was higher bio-oil yields with the order of nano-Ni/SiO2 &gt; zeolite &gt; Na2CO3 in hydrothermal liquefaction of microalgae Nannochloropsis sp. The highest bio-oil yield (30.0 wt%) was obtained at 250 °C by using Nano-Ni/SiO2. Moreover, applying catalyst resulted in a decrease in the oxygen and the nitrogen contents of the bio-oil and consequently an increase in its heating value. The results of this research also suggest the possibility of nanocatalyst recovery for 2–3 times. 

Chromatography, spectroscopy and thermal analysis of oil and biodiesel of sesame (Sesamum indicum) − An alternative for the Brazilian Northeast
The brute oil obtained by sesame seed mechanical extraction and biodiesel obtained through transesterification with methyl and ethyl alcohol was analyzed by the use of the following techniques: gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometer (CG/MS) and nuclear magnetic resonance of hydrogen and carbon (NMR 1H and 13C). The seeds were cultivated in Sousa city, located in the northeast of Brazil. The linoleic acid was found as major component of the oil followed by the oleic acid. The NMR spectra confirm the obtaining of the methyl and ethyl biodiesel. The thermal behavior of the oil and the biodiesel were determined by the use of thermogravimetric analysis (TG). The TG curves were obtained in three different heat rates (10, 20 e 30 °C.min−1) in oxidative atmosphere. The decomposition of the biodiesels occurred in only one-step. However, three steps were observed for the thermal degradation of the brute oil. These steps can be attributed to evaporation and/or decomposition of the triglycerides. The analysis of the thermogravimetric data allowed the determination of the thermodynamics parameters as pre exponential factor and activation energy. The average value of the energy activation for the methyl biodiesel was 67.54 ± 0.84 KJ mol−1 and for the ethyl biodiesel was 66.74 ± 0.75 KJ mol−1.

Gold particles growth on carbon felt for efficient micropower generation in a hybrid biofuel cell
In this study, homogeneously dispersed gold particles growth onto carbon felt were fabricated by electrodeposition method followed by a thermal treatment at 1000 °C under nitrogen. The thermal treatment induced the dewetting of gold and the formation of well-crystallized gold particles that exhibited large surface area. The structural properties of the resulted Au@CF material were evaluated by SEM, XRD and TGA. We studied the electrocatalytic properties of this new gold material through the abiotic glucose oxidation in alkaline medium and the enzymatic dioxygen electroreduction by the enzyme bilirubin oxidase. Finally, we showed the potentiality of the resulting Au@CF material to build a 3-dimensional glucose hybrid biofuel cell by assemblying an abiotic anode with an enzymatic cathode. The system exhibited high electrochemical performance with an open circuit voltage of 0.71 V and a maximum power density of 310 μW cm−2 at 352 mV (by taking into account the projected surface area), in spite of a low gold loading (0.2 wt%). The advance presented in this work is the efficiency of the synthesis technique to get a new free-standing material for electrocatalysis based on gold particles with high reactive surface area for electron transfer and macropores for diffusion transport. 

Continuous Catalytic Esterification and Hydrogenation of a Levoglucosan/Acetic Acid Mixture for Production of Ethyl Levulinate/Acetate and Valeric Biofuels
A mixture of levoglucosan (LG) and acetic acid (AA), representing water extracted fast pyrolysis oil, was continuously converted to ethyl levulinate (EL) and ethyl acetate (EA) using H-ZSM5 [120-230°C, 600 psig, 80% ethanol (v/v)]. Fractional conversion of both reactants was 65% or greater at temperatures above 120°C, and space time yields (STY) approached 140 and 15 g/L-cat/h for EA and EL, respectively, at 180°C (LHSV = 4.9 h-1). Two potential pathways for EL formation from levoglucosan were apparent, one with glucose and ethyl α-D-glucopyranoside as intermediates and the other with furfural. Adding metal functionality (Ru/H-ZSM5) resulted in the production of valerate biofuels (esters of carboxylic acids C3 or greater; e.g., pentanoic and hexanoic acid ethyl esters) and EA from the mixture in the presence of hydrogen. Conversions for LG and AA using Ru/H-ZSM5 were similar to H-ZSM5, but ethyl levulinate space time yield declined (∼5 g/L-cat/h) as valerate biofuel STY increased (∼10 g/L-cat/h) at an optimum temperature of 180°C. Our results indicate that valerate biofuels can be produced from levoglucosan (and possibly other sugars) in a continuous single stage, integrated process. However, due to low yields and coke formation, it is clear that ethanol/water ratios, pore size, and acid site type and density must be optimized when coupled with metal functionality for industrial application. American Chemical Society.

Organic Solid Acid Catalyst for Efficient Conversion of Furfuryl Alcohol to Biofuels
We report the synthesis of a highly active microporous sulphonated monolithic catalyst (HCC-ML-SO3H) through the Friedel–Crafts alkylation reaction between carbazole and α,α′-dibromo-p-xylene in the presence of a Lewis acid catalyst FeCl3 under refluxing conditions, followed by sulphonation reaction (chlorosulfonic acid treatment under controlled reaction conditions). This sulphonated solid acid catalyst can catalyze the ring opening of furanoid moiety of furfuryl alcohol (FA) and subsequent esterification with various alcohols in one-pot to produce levulinate esters, which are potential biofuels. Here the porous organic polymer bearing reactive SO3H groups (HCC-ML-SO3H) acts as a very reactive solid acid catalyst. Due to large surface area and extensive cross-linking this porous polymer is very attractive material for the synthesis of levulinate esters from FA under metal free conditions. The catalyst has been characterized by N2 sorption, HR-TEM, 13C solid state CP MAS NMR, XPS and FT-IR. The catalyst can be reused for four consecutive reaction cycles without appreciable loss of activity. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Exergy analysis of biodiesel combustion in a direct injection compression ignition (CI) engine using quasi-dimensional multi-zone model
In the present work, the exergy analysis was carried out for a diesel engine fueled with waste cooking oil (WCO) and its blends in four-stroke DI (direct injection) diesel engine at full load operation. To model the combustion process, a computerized version of Shahed's quasi-dimensional multi-zone was used. Moreover, a FORTRAN-based code, which includes 12 species (CO2, H2O, N2, O2, CO, H, OH, H2, N, NO, O, Ar) associated with combustion products was employed to study the exergy analysis. The fuel injection amount was kept constant and five different fuel mixtures (B0, B5, B20, B50 and B100) were employed during a closed cycle. The computational in-cylinder pressures for neat diesel fuel were compared with those of calculated experimentally in the literature, and they showed a good agreement. Various rate and accumulative exergy components were computed with crank position at five fuel compositions. The results showed that as biodiesel increases by volume blends from 0% to 100%, the exergy efficiency increases slightly. The accumulative irreversibility decreased by 4.7%. From the viewpoint of the exergy analysis, for considered biodiesel blends the biodiesel fuel could be used as an alternative fuel without any considerable penalty on converting the fuel exergy to thermal energy in order to produce useful work. Moreover, the exergetic performance coefficient showed that B20 was the optimum biodiesel blend to present the best combustion performance.

Acid-base bifunctional zirconium N-alkyltriphosphate nanohybrid for hydrogen transfer of biomass-derived carboxides
Catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) reactions are efficient transformation routes to upgrade biobased chemicals. Herein, we report a facile and template-free route to synthesize a series of heterogeneous nitrogen-containing alkyltriphosphonatemetal hybrids with enhancive Lewis acid and base sites, and their catalytic activity in converting biomass-derived carbonyl compounds to corresponding alcohols in 2-propanol. Particularly, a quantitative yield of furfuryl alcohol (FFA) was obtained from furfural (FUR) over organotriphosphate-zirconium hybrid (ZrPN) under mild conditions. The presence of Lewis basic sites adjacent to acid sites with an appropriate base/acid site ratio (1:0.7) in ZrPN significantly improved the yield of FFA. Mechanistic studies for the transformation of FUR to FFA with ZrPN in 2-propanol-d8 evidently indicate CTH reaction proceeding via a direct intermolecular hydrogen transfer route. It was also found that ZrPN could catalyze isomerization of C3-C6 aldoses to ketoses involving intramolecular hydrogen transfer in water. American Chemical Society.

Selective Hydrodeoxygenation of Lignin-Derived Phenols to Cyclohexanols or Cyclohexanes over Magnetic CoNx@NC Catalysts under Mild Conditions
The hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of lignin-derived phenols is important to produce the renewable biofuels. Herein, we reported a simple method to prepare magnetic nitrogen-doped carbon supported cobalt nitride catalysts (CoNx@NC) by copyrolysis of cellulose and cobalt nitrate under ammonia atmosphere. The catalysts were prepared at different temperatures and characterized by elemental analysis, atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and temperature-programmed reduction (TPR). The CoNx@NC-650 (pyrolyzed at 650°C) exhibited the best HDO activity for eugenol conversion among a series of Co-based catalysts. The yield of propylcyclohexanol from eugenol was &gt;99.9% under 2 MPa H2 at 200°C for 2 h. Moreover, a high yield of propylcyclohexane (99.1%) could be achieved when the solid acid HZSM-5 was added to the reaction system. Other lignin-derived phenolic compounds were also investigated and the yield of alkanes was &gt;90%. Based on the mechanism investigation, the catalyst demonstrated a high selectivity to cleave the Caryl-OR bond under mild conditions. (Chemical Equation Presented). American Chemical Society.

Multi-objective exergetic optimization of continuous photo-biohydrogen production process using a novel hybrid fuzzy clustering-ranking approach coupled with Radial Basis Function (RBF) neural network
This work was focused on the development of a novel hybrid fuzzy clustering-ranking approach coupled with radial basis function (RBF) neural network for the optimization of the key operational parameters for hydrogen production from photo-fermentation. The bioconversion of syngas to hydrogen via water-gas shift (WGS) reaction was carried out using the light-dependent microorganism Rhodospirillum rubrum and acetate as the sole carbon source. The RBF neural network was used to correlate exergetic outputs (normalized exergy destruction as well as rational and process exergetic efficiencies) to two exogenous input variables (culture agitation speed and syngas flow rate). The developed RBF model was interfaced with the proposed hybrid fuzzy clustering-ranking algorithm to simultaneously maximize the rational and process exergetic efficiencies and minimize the normalized exergy destruction. Moreover, the conventional fuzzy optimization algorithm was applied in order to assess the capability of the proposed approach over the existing methods for multi-objective optimization of complex biofuel production systems such as a continuous photobioreactor with respect to the sustainability and productivity issues. Once the development of the objective functions were carried out using RBF Neural Networks, the proposed algorithm was able to identify the optimum exergetically-sustainable operational parameters of carbon monoxide fermentation to biohydrogen with 20 clusters. This corresponded to the syngas flow rate of 13.68 mL/min and culture agitation speed of 348.62 rpm yielding the process exergetic efficiency of 16.46%, rational exergetic efficiency of 91.59%, and normalized exergy destruction of 2.14. The predicted optimum values by the proposed algorithm in this study were more suitable compared with the conventional fuzzy method. Therefore, the novel algorithm developed in this study may be a promising approach for navigation of the most cost-effective and environmental friendly operational parameters for fermentative hydrogen production from pilot and large scale photobioreactors. Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC

Biogas and bioethanol production from pinewood pre-treated with steam explosion and N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide (NMMO): A comparative life cycle assessment approach
In this study, the lignocellulosic biofuel production from pinewood, pretreated with steam explosion and N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide (NMMO), was investigated from a life cycle perspective in Sweden. To perform this study four scenarios, i.e. ethanol and biogas production by NMMO (Sc-1) and steam explosion (Sc-3) pretreatments, and biogas production by NMMO (Sc-2) and steam explosion (Sc-4) pretreatments, were developed. The consequential life cycle assessment (CLCA) methodology with a cradle to gate approach was employed and two functional units, i.e. 105,263 tonnes pinewood input to the biofuel plant and 1 MJ energy produced, were selected in order to assess the environmental impacts of pinewood-based biofuel production. The results revealed that bioenergy production with NMMO-based pretreatment method was more environmentally friendly than steam explosion process in terms of human health, ecosystem quality, resources and climate change. Moreover, it was shown that the Sc-2 in which methane was the single outcome of the plant (the main product) outperformed the other scenarios in terms of environmental performance and energy balance. 

Promotion of hydrogen-rich gas and phenolic-rich bio-oil production from green macroalgae Cladophora glomerata via pyrolysis over its bio-char
Conversion of Cladophora glomerata (C. glomerata) as a Caspian Sea's green macroalgae into gaseous, liquid and solid products was carried out via pyrolysis at different temperatures to determine its potential for bio-oil and hydrogen-rich gas production for further industrial utilization. Non-catalytic tests were performed to determine the optimum condition for bio-oil production. The highest portion of bio-oil was retrieved at 500 °C. The catalytic test was performed using the bio-char derived at 500 °C as a catalyst. Effect of the addition of the algal bio-char on the composition of the bio-oil and also gaseous products was investigated. Pyrolysis derived bio-char was characterized by BET, FESEM and ICP method to show its surface area, porosity, and presence of inorganic metals on its surface, respectively. Phenols were increased from 8.5 to 20.76 area% by the addition of bio-char. Moreover, the hydrogen concentration and hydrogen selectivity were also enhanced by the factors of 1.37, 1.59 respectively. 

Conversion of poultry wastes into energy feedstocks
In this study, conversion of wastes from poultry farming and industry into biochar and bio-oil via thermochemical processes was investigated. Fuel characteristics and chemical structure of biochars and bio-oils have been investigated using standard fuel analysis and spectroscopic methods. Biochars were produced from poultry litter through both hydrothermal carbonization (sub-critical water, 175–250 °C) and pyrolysis over a temperature range between 250 and 500 °C. In comparison to hydrothermal carbonization, pyrolysis at lower temperatures produced biochar with greater energy yield due to the higher mass yield. Biochars obtained by both processes were comparable to coal. Hydrothermal liquefaction of poultry meal at different temperatures (200–325 °C) was conducted and compared to optimize its process conditions. Higher temperatures favored the formation of bio-crude oil, with a maximum yield of 35 wt.% at 300 °C. The higher heating values of bio-oils showed that bio-oil could be a potential source of synthetic fuels. However, elemental analysis demonstrated the high nitrogen content of bio-oils. Therefore, bio-oils obtained from hydrothermal liquefaction of poultry meal should be upgraded for utilization as a transport and heating fuel. 

Ethyl biodiesel production from non-edible oils of Balanites aegyptiaca, Azadirachta indica, and Jatropha curcas seeds - Laboratory scale development
By starting first at the laboratory scale, optimal operating conditions for the reaction unit aimed at producing ethyl biodiesels from non-edible vegetable oils (NEVO) were determined with the ultimate objective of proposing an on-farm processing technology that should be sustainable for emerging countries. Three NEVO widely available in Burkina Faso were selected: Balanites aegyptiaca (BA), Azadirachta indica (AI), and Jatropha curcas (JC) oils. Their conversion to fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE) was conducted via a two-stage procedure under atmospheric pressure: an alkali-catalyzed ethanolysis at ambient temperature for the BA and AI oils (leading to 93 and 87 wt.% FAEE respectively) and an acid-catalyzed ethanolysis at the normal boiling of the alcohol for the JC oil (leading to 89 wt.% FAEE). Based on the intermediate addition of glycerol at ambient temperature, the two-stage procedure combines chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, and phase equilibrium phenomena. .

The Role of the Hydrogen Source on the Selective Production of γ-Valerolactone and 2-Methyltetrahydrofuran from Levulinic Acid
A mechanistic study of the hydrogenation reaction of levulinic acid (LA) to 2-methyltetrahydrofuyran (MTHF) was performed using three different solvents under reactive H2 and inert N2 atmospheres. Under the applied reaction conditions, catalytic transfer hydrogenation and hydrogenation with molecular H2 were effective at producing high yields of γ-valerolactone. However, the conversion of this stable intermediate to MTHF required the combination of both hydrogen sources (the solvent and the H2 atmosphere) to achieve good yields. The reaction system with 2-propanol as solvent and Ni–Cu/Al2O3 as catalyst allowed full conversion of LA and a MTHF yield of 80 % after 20 h reaction time at 250 °C and 40 bar of H2 (at room temperature). The system showed the same catalytic activity at LA feed concentrations of 5 and up to 30 wt%, and also when high acetone concentration at the beginning of the reaction were added, which confirmed the potential industrial applications of this solvent/catalyst system. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

Performance of hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of biomass by multivariate data analysis
Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is one of the most promising biomass reforming processes for production of drop-in biofuels. The technique has been under development for a number of years, and yet, due to its complexity, it has always been difficult to generalize information about the optimal conditions. The main issue regards to the limited knowledge available from batch studies evaluating HTL by a finite number of process conditions in certain combinations. In this study, multivariate statistical methods were applied for investigation of HTL data available in the literature. The aim was to determine a set of generally valid rules for prediction of the output from the process (yields and the energy content) on the basis of relatively few process parameters. The results have shown that multivariate data analysis can be used to make predictions about HTL and increase our understanding of the process, despite the fact that the input data constituted a very broad spectrum of values. In general, biomass type and properties were the most significant parameters controlling both the obtained yields and the energy content in the produced biocrude. Regression models calculated for all groups of biomass were relatively poor, due to the lack of common trends. However, a number of statistically sound models were obtained for selected combinations of biomass and responses. The drawn conclusions not only supported the pre-understood axioms of HTL, but also indicated a number of new associations. It was shown that the overall conversion rates are governed by biomass properties and the applied heating velocities, while the amount of homogeneous catalyst and the reaction time control the distribution of the products between the water phase and the biocrude. The energy content in the biocrude produced from lignocellulose was dependent mostly on the biomass content and properties, and not the process conditions. Elsevier B.V.

Membraneless enzymatic ethanol/O2 fuel cell: Transitioning from an air-breathing Pt-based cathode to a bilirubin oxidase-based biocathode
The bioelectrooxidation of ethanol was investigated in a fully enzymatic membraneless ethanol/O2 biofuel cell assembly using hybrid bioanodes containing multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT)-decorated gold metallic nanoparticles with either a pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ)-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzyme or a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent ADH enzyme. The biofuel cell anode was prepared with the PQQ-dependent enzyme and designed using either a direct electron transfer (DET) architecture or via a mediated electron transfer (MET) configuration through a redox polymer, 1,1′-dimethylferrocene-modified linear polyethyleneimine (FcMe2-C3-LPEI). In the case of the bioanode containing the NAD+-dependent enzyme, only the mediated electron transfer mechanism was employed using an electropolymerized methylene green film to regenerate the NAD+ cofactor. Regardless of the enzyme being employed at the anode, a bilirubin oxidase-based biocathode prepared within a DET architecture afforded efficient electrocatalytic oxygen reduction in an ethanol/O2 biofuel cell. The power curves showed that DET-based bioanodes via the PQQ-dependent ADH still lack high current densities, whereas the MET architecture furnished maximum power density values as high as 226 ± 21 μW cm−2. Considering the complete membraneless enzymatic biofuel cell with the NAD+-dependent ADH-based bioanode, power densities as high as 111 ± 14 μW cm−2 were obtained. This shows the advantage of PQQ-dependent ADH for membraneless ethanol/O2 biofuel cell applications. Elsevier B.V.

Ru-Containing Magnetically Recoverable Catalysts: A Sustainable Pathway from Cellulose to Ethylene and Propylene Glycols
Biomass processing to value-added chemicals and biofuels received considerable attention due to the renewable nature of the precursors. Here, we report the development of Ru-containing magnetically recoverable catalysts for cellulose hydrogenolysis to low alcohols, ethylene glycol (EG) and propylene glycol (PG). The catalysts are synthesized by incorporation of magnetite nanoparticles (NPs) in mesoporous silica pores followed by formation of 2 nm Ru NPs. The latter are obtained by thermal decomposition of ruthenium acetylacetonate in the pores. The catalysts showed excellent activities and selectivities at 100% cellulose conversion, exceeding those for the commercial Ru/C. High selectivities as well as activities are attributed to the influence of Fe3O4 on the Ru0/Ru4+ NPs. A facile synthetic protocol, easy magnetic separation, and stability of the catalyst performance after magnetic recovery make these catalysts promising for industrial applications. American Chemical Society.

Using decalin and tetralin as hydrogen source for transfer hydrogenation of renewable lignin-derived phenolics over activated carbon supported Pd and Pt catalysts
Catalytic hydrogenation is considered as an efficient technique for upgrading pyrolysis bio-oil. High flammability of hydrogen gas in contact with air leads to difficult control of high pressurized hydrogen gas in large-scale systems. Meanwhile, molecular hydrogen production is a costly industrial process. Thus, hydrogenation study using hydrogen donor (H-donor) material as alternative for hydrogen gas could be useful in terms of cost and safety control. In this study, the potential of decalin and tetralin for use as hydrogen source was investigated in transfer hydrogenation of renewable lignin-derived phenolic compounds (phenol, o-cresol and guaiacol) and a simulated phenolic bio-oil over Pd/C and Pt/C catalysts. Reaction mechanisms of H-donor dehydrogenation and phenolics hydrogenation were studied. Catalytic activity of Pt/C for transfer hydrogenation of the phenolic compounds was higher than that of Pd/C at reaction temperature of 275 °C. Decalin as hydrogen source showed to be more efficient for hydrogenation of the phenolic compounds compared to tetralin. In addition, the influence of water content on transfer hydrogenation activity was studied by employing the water to donor ratios of 0/100, 25/75, 50/50 and 75/25 g/g. Maximum hydrogenation of phenol as bio-oil model compound was observed at water to donor ratio of 50/50 g/g. Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers.

Coking Study of Nickel Catalysts Using Model Compounds
Abstract: The tendency of coke formation was investigated using nickel catalysts supported on calcium and barium hexaaluminates, compared with a commercial catalyst of natural gas steam reforming. It was developed a methodology in a microactivity unit using cyclohexane as model compound and hydrogen as gas carrier, at low temperature (300–500 °C). After the coking tests, the catalysts were characterized by elemental analysis (CHN) and thermogravimetric analysis using air and steam. 6NiO-BaAl presented the lowest coke removal rate with air. After that, the methodology was modified for ethanol and acetic acid, important model compounds used in studies of biofuels, steam reforming and bio-oil pyrolysis. All model compounds lead to carbon formation with the same chemical nature, as indicated by the temperature of the oxidation peak. So, the methodology can be used as a tool for selection of catalysts. Additionally, cyclohexane and acetic acid are ideal model compounds, because of the lowest and highest coke removal rates with air. Graphical Abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.], Springer Science+Business Media New York.

Biotransformation of 5-hydroxy-methylfurfural into 2,5-furan-dicarboxylic acid by bacterial isolate using thermal acid algal hydrolysate
Thermal acid hydrolysis is often used to deal with lignocellulosic biomasses, but 5-hydroxy-methylfurfural (5-HMF) formed during hydrolysis deeply influences downstream fermentation. 2,5-Furan-dicarboxylic acid (FDCA), which is in the list of future important biomass platform molecules can be obtained using 5-HMF biotransformation. Based on the connection between 5-HMF removal in acid hydrolysate and FDCA production, the optimum thermal acid hydrolysis condition for macroalgae Chaetomorpha linum was established. Potential microbes capable of transforming 5-HMF into FDCA were isolated and characterized under various parameters and inoculated into algal hydrolysate to perform 5-HMF biotransformation. The optimum hydrolysis condition was to apply 0.5 M HCl to treat 3% algal biomass under 121 °C for 15 min. Isolated Burkholderia cepacia H-2 could transform 2000 mg/L 5-HMF at the initial pH of 7 at 28 °C and 1276 mg/L FDCA was received. Strain B. cepacia H-2 was suitable for treating the algal hydrolysate without dilution, receiving 989.5 mg/L FDCA. .

Preparation and kinetic study of magnetic Ca/Fe3O4@SiO2 nanocatalysts for biodiesel production
The novel magnetic Ca/Fe3O4@SiO2 nanocatalysts were prepared via combination of sol-gel and incipient wetness impregnation methods for biodiesel production. This research investigates the effect of different Ca/(Fe3O4@SiO2) weight percentage on the catalytic performance. The best operational conditions were the CH3OH/oil = 15/1 at 65 °C with mechanical stirring for 5 h. Furthermore, the optimal nano catalyst showed high catalytic activity for biodiesel production and the biodiesel yield reached 97% under the optimal conditions. From the TPD results, the high basicity of catalysts enabled high yield of biodiesel was obtained. The catalyst could be recovered simply by using an external magnetic field and reused several times without appreciable loss of its catalytic activity. From the kinetic and thermodynamic studes, Ea = 47.03 kJ, A = 1.9 × 10 5 min-1, δH = 112.56 kJ mol-1 and δS = 298.63 J mol-1 K-1 were obtained. Characterization of catalysts was carried out by using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), vibrating sample magnetometry (VSM), temperature programmed desorption (TPD), Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), differential thermogravimetric analysis (DTA), Fourier transform-infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and N2 adsorption-desorption measurement methods. .

Mixed and ground KBr-impregnated calcined snail shell and kaolin as solid base catalysts for biodiesel production
Mixed and ground activated snail shell and kaolin catalysts impregnated with KBr were investigated. The snail shell and kaolin were calcined, mixed, and ground prior to immersion with KBr solution and subsequent activation at 500 °C for 3 h. The precursor and catalysts were characterized by thermal gravimetric analysis, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area. The catalytic performance of the prepared catalysts was evaluated by transesterification of soybean oil with methanol. The effects of various parameters on biodiesel yield were investigated. A biodiesel yield of 98.5% was achieved using the catalyst prepared by 40% KBr-immersed, mixed, and ground snail shell and kaolin, which were activated at 500 °C. The transesterification conditions were as follows: reaction temperature, 65 °C; reaction time, 2 h; methanol-to-soybean oil molar ratio, 6:1; and catalyst amount (relative to the weight of soybean oil), 2.0 wt%. The solid catalyst could be reused for four times, and biodiesel yield remained over 73.6% for the fourth time. .

Effect of an emission-reducing soluble hybrid nanocatalyst in diesel/biodiesel blends on exergetic performance of a DI diesel engine
The present study was set to explore the effect of a novel soluble hybrid nanocatalyst in diesel/biodiesel fuel blends on exergetic performance parameters of a DI diesel engine. Experiments were carried out using two types of diesel/biodiesel blends (i.e., B5 and B20) at four concentrations (0, 30, 60 and 90 ppm) of the hybrid nanocatalyst, i.e., cerium oxide immobilized on amide-functionalized multiwall carbon nanotubes (MWCNT). Furthermore, the exergy analysis was performed at five different loads and two engine speeds. The results obtained revealed that the exergetic parameters were profoundly influenced by engine speed and load. In general, increasing engine speed and load increased the magnitude of the destructed exergy. Moreover, the exergy efficiency increased by increasing engine load, while it decreased by elevating engine speed. However, the applied fuel blends had approximately similar exergetic efficiency and sustainability index. Interestingly, a remarkable reduction in emissions was obtained by incorporating the soluble catalyst nanoparticles to the diesel/biodiesel blends. Thus, it could be concluded that the diesel/biodiesel blends containing amide-functionalized MWCNTs-CeO2 catalyst might substitute the use of pure diesel fuel without any unfavorable change in the exergetic performance parameters of the DI engines. .

Stable and efficient CuCr catalyst for the solvent-free hydrogenation of biomass derived ethyl levulinate to γ-valerolactone as potential biofuel candidate
Noble metal free CuCr based catalysts have been adopted for the production of γ-valerolactone (GVL) which is a biomass derived crucial platform molecule and potential liquid fuel candidate. However, the preparation of CuCr catalysts varies and in this research, a CuCr catalyst synthesized under mild conditions showed rather high catalytic capacity for the solvent-free hydrogenation of ethyl levulinate (EL) to GVL in a yield up to 95%. The catalyst was in-situ reduced and displayed excellent recycle capacity with no obvious activity decline within 5 successive runs, which was much more stable than ex-situ reduced CuCr catalyst. The high efficient, low cost and recyclability of this CuCr catalyst provides a promising pathway for biomass derived GVL production. . All rights reserved.

Development of novel Ag/bauxite nanocomposite as a heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel production
Ag/bauxite nanocomposites have been prepared using in situ reduction of aqueous AgNO3 solution in a bauxite matrix and investigated for the transesterification of sunflower oil with methanol in order to study their potential as heterogeneous catalysts. The prepared nanocopmosites were characterized by XRD, SEM, EDX, FT-IR, and TG- DTA. The Central Composite Design of the Response Surface Methodology was used to optimize the effect of reaction temperature, reaction time, catalyst loading and methanol to oil molar ratio on the yield of fatty acid methyl esters. The highest yield was obtained at 67 °C reaction temperature, 3 h reaction time, 0.3 wt.% catalyst loading and 9:1 methanol to oil molar ratio. Under the optimal conditions, the methyl ester content was 94% and the catalyst successfully reused for at least 7 cycles without significant deactivation. .

Using exergy to analyse the sustainability of fermentative ethanol and acetate production from syngas via anaerobic bacteria (Clostridium ljungdahlii)
In this study, exergetic performance assessment of ethanol and acetate fermentation in a batch bioreactor using Clostridium ljungdahlii under various syngas pressures in the range of 0.8–1.8 atm was carried out. The exergetic parameters of the bioreactor were determined using both conventional exergy and eco-exergy concepts in order to select the most sustainable and productive operational conditions. In general, a significant difference was found between the exergetic values of the process using the conventional exergy and eco-exergy approaches. Overall, the eco-exergy concept showed to be a more appropriate approach for analysing and optimizing energy conversion systems including living organisms due to the incorporation of the work of the genetic information embodied in the genomes of microorganisms. The lowest overall normalized exergy destruction was found to be 49.96 kJ/kJ Ac + EtOH and 40.54 kJ/kJ Ac + EtOH at initial pressure of 1.8 atm using the conventional exergy and eco-exergy concepts, respectively. Accordingly, this condition would be recommended to be applied in pilot- or industrial-scale bioreactors. Finally, the employed approach herein could be used to shed light on on-going attempts to improve the performance of the bioreactors for biofuel production considering the sustainability and productivity perspectives. 

Valorization of horse manure through catalytic supercritical water gasification
The organic wastes such as lignocellulosic biomass, municipal solid waste, sewage sludge and livestock manure have attracted attention as alternative sources of energy. Cattle manure, a waste generated in surplus amounts from the feedlot, has always been a chief environmental concern. This study is focused on identifying the candidacy of horse manure as a next generation feedstock for biofuel production through supercritical water gasification. The horse manure was gasified in supercritical water to examine the effects of temperature (400-600 °C), biomass-to-water ratio (1:5 and 1:10) and reaction time (15-45 min) at a pressure range of 23-25 MPa. The horse manure and resulting biochar were characterized through carbon-hydrogen-nitrogen-sulfur (CHNS), inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The effects of alkali catalysts such as NaOH, Na2CO3 and K2CO3 at variable concentrations (1-2 wt%) were investigated to maximize the hydrogen yields. Supercritical water gasification of horse manure with 2 wt% Na2CO3 at 600 °C and 1:10 biomass-to-water ratio for 45 min revealed maximum hydrogen yields (5.31 mmol/g), total gas yields (20.8 mmol/g) with greater carbon conversion efficiency (43.1%) and enhanced lower heating value of gas products (2920 kJ/Nm3). The manure-derived biochars generated at temperatures higher than 500 °C also demonstrated higher thermal stability (weight loss &lt;34%) and larger carbon content (&gt;70 wt%) suggesting their application in enhancing soil fertility and carbon sequestration. The results propose that supercritical water gasification could be a proficient remediation technology for horse manure to generate hydrogen-rich gas products. .

Adsorption of guaiacol on Fe (110) and Pd (111) from first principles
The catalytic properties of surfaces are highly dependent upon the effect said surfaces have on the geometric and electronic structure of adsorbed reactants, products, and intermediates. It is therefore crucial to have a surface-level understanding of the adsorption of the key species in a reaction in order to design active and selective catalysts. Here, we study the adsorption of guaiacol on Fe (110) and Pd (111) using dispersion-corrected density functional theory calculations as both of these metals are of interest as hydrodeoxygenation catalysts for the conversion of bio-oils to useable biofuels. Both vertical (via the oxygen functional groups) and horizontal (via the aromatic ring) adsorption configurations were examined and the resulting adsorption and molecular distortion energies showed that the vertical sites were only physisorbed while the horizontal sites were chemisorbed on both metal surfaces. A comparison of guaiacol's horizontal adsorption on Fe (110) and Pd (111) showed that guaiacol had a stronger adsorption on Pd (111) while the Fe (110) surface distorted the C-O bonds to a greater degree. Electronic analyses on the horizontal systems showed that the greater adsorption strength for guaiacol on Pd (111) was likely due to the greater charge transfer between the aromatic ring and the surface Pd atoms. Additionally, the greater distortion of the C-O bonds in adsorbed guaiacol on Fe (110) is likely due to the greater degree of interaction between the oxygen and surface Fe atoms. Overall, our results show that the Fe (110) surface has a greater degree of interaction with the functional groups and the Pd (111) surface has a greater degree of interaction with the aromatic ring. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Cubic PdNP-based air-breathing cathodes integrated in glucose hybrid biofuel cells
Cubic Pd nanoparticles (PdNPs) were synthesized using ascorbic acid as a reducing agent and were evaluated for the catalytic oxygen reduction reaction. PdNPs were confined with multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) dispersions to form black suspensions and these inks were dropcast onto glassy carbon electrodes. Different nanoparticle sizes were synthesized and investigated upon oxygen reduction capacities (onset potential and electrocatalytic current densities) under O2 saturated conditions at varying pH values. Strong evidence of O2 diffusion limitation was demonstrated. In order to overcome oxygen concentration and diffusion limitations in solution, we used a gas diffusion layer to create a PdNP-based air-breathing cathode, which delivered-1.5 mA cm-2 at 0.0 V with an onset potential of 0.4 V. This air-breathing cathode was combined with a specially designed phenanthrolinequinone/glucose dehydrogenase-based anode to form a complete glucose/O2 hybrid bio-fuel cell providing an open circuit voltage of 0.554 V and delivering a maximal power output of 184 ± 21 μW cm-2 at 0.19 V and pH 7.0. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Organic-Inorganic Hybrid Metal Phosphonates as Recyclable Heterogeneous Catalysts
Successful incorporation of a suitable organic moiety in a porous inorganic metal phosphate network can not only make the corresponding organic-inorganic framework more flexible and robust, but it introduces more hydrophobicity at the surface of the resulting nanostructured material, which is highly desirable for their catalytic application in liquid-phase chemical transformations. Following the success of organic-inorganic hybrid mesoporous silicas, a wide range of analogous hybrid metal phosphonates have been designed. This has opened up a wide diversity of open framework porous nanomaterials, which show excellent catalytic activities in many organic transformations that are not possible with their corresponding inorganic counterparts. Here, we have summarized the recent developments in designing organic-inorganic hybrid porous metal phosphonates in this brief review with a special emphasis on their catalytic potential in liquid-phase organic transformations. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Development of a glucose oxidase-based biocatalyst adopting both physical entrapment and crosslinking, and its use in biofuel cells
New enzymatic catalysts prepared using physical entrapment and chemical bonding were used as anodic catalysts to enhance the performance of enzymatic biofuel cells (EBCs). For estimating the physical entrapment effect, the best glucose oxidase (GOx) concentration immobilized on polyethyleneimine (PEI) and carbon nanotube (CNT) (GOx/PEI/CNT) was determined, while for inspecting the chemical bonding effect, terephthalaldehyde (TPA) and glutaraldehyde (GA) crosslinkers were employed. According to the enzyme activity and XPS measurements, when the GOx concentration is 4 mg mL-1, they are most effectively immobilized (via the physical entrapment effect) and TPA-crosslinked GOx/PEI/CNT(TPA/[GOx/PEI/CNT]) forms π conjugated bonds via chemical bonding, inducing the promotion of electron transfer by delocalization of electrons. Due to the optimized GOx concentration and π conjugated bonds, TPA/[GOx/PEI/CNT], including 4 mg mL-1 GOx displays a high electron transfer rate, followed by excellent catalytic activity and EBC performance. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Deoxygenation of bio-oil over solid base catalysts: From model to realistic feeds
This study investigates the design of mild base catalysts for the deoxygenation of bio-oil via aldol condensation paths. The first part rationalizes the active, selective, and stable performance of supported MgO catalysts in the vapor phase condensation of propanal, which is maximized upon the mechanochemical activation of a siliceous USY zeolite (Si/Al=405) with 1wt.% Mg(OH)2. Infrared spectroscopic studies of the interaction with CO and CO2, reveal that the presence of 4-coordinate Mg likely localized in framework defects on the zeolite surface, and the avoidance of MgO formation are key to moderating the basicity with respect to the bulk oxide. The second part compares the best-performing MgO/USY catalyst with the most promising previously reported catalysts: K-grafted USY and Ca-hydroxyapatite. A detailed kinetic analysis of the conversion of individual bio-oil constituents (propanal or acetic acid) and binary mixtures thereof (propanal with acetic acid, methanol, or water) provides insights into the reaction network, rate-limiting steps, and relative surface coverage of reactants and products over each catalyst. This enables the anticipation of the aldol-condensation performance in simulated and real bio-oil mixtures. A significant inhibitory effect is observed in the presence of acetic acid, but the K-grafted USY zeolite is found to preserve its stability and retain the highest activity due to the weaker adsorption of acidic compounds. The presence of water has no pronounced effect on the observed reaction rates, while methanol is found to selectively poison Ca-hydroxyapatite due to the competitive adsorption on the active sites. The attained results under real bio-oil conditions demonstrate the effectiveness of this simplified approach to bridge the complexity gap between the study of model compounds and real bio-oil. Elsevier B.V..

The use of engineered protein materials in electrochemical devices
Bioelectrochemical technologies have an important and growing role in healthcare, with applications in sensing and diagnostics, as well as the potential to be used as implantable power sources and be integrated with automated drug delivery systems. Challenges associated with enzyme-based electrodes include low current density and short functional lifetimes. Protein engineering is emerging as a powerful tool to overcome these issues. By taking advantage of the ability to precisely define protein sequences, electrodes can be organized into high performing structures, and enable the next generation of medical devices., by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

One-step production of biodiesel through simultaneous esterification and transesterification from highly acidic unrefined feedstock over efficient and recyclable ZnO nanostar catalyst
Zinc oxide (ZnO) nanostar synthesized by simple and up-scalable microwave-assisted surfactant free hydrolysis method was applied as catalyst for biodiesel synthesis through one-step simultaneous esterification and transesterification from high free fatty acid (FFA) contaminated unrefined feedstock. It was found that ZnO nanostar catalyst was reacted with FFA to yield zinc oleate (ZnOl) as intermediate and finally became zinc glycerolate (ZnGly). With the re-deposition of ZnGly back to the ZnO nanostar catalyst at the end of the reaction, the catalyst can be easily recovered and stay active for five cycles. Furthermore, the rate of transesterification is highly promoted by the presence of FFA (6 wt.%) which makes it an efficient catalyst for low grade feedstock like waste cooking oil and crude plant oils. .

Biodiesel production from refined sunflower vegetable oil over KOH/ZSM5 catalysts
ZSM5 zeolite was impregnated with different KOH loadings (15 wt.%, 25 wt.% and 35 wt.%) to prepare a series of KOH/ZSM5 catalysts. The catalysts were calcined at 500 °C for 3 h and then characterized by N2 adsorption-desorption and X-ray diffraction (XRD) techniques. The catalysts were tested in the transesterification reaction in a batch reactor at 60 °C and under atmospheric pressure. It was found that KOH/ZSM5 with 35 wt.% loading showed the best catalytic performance. The best reaction conditions in the presence of KOH/ZSM5 (35 wt.%) were determined while modifying the catalyst to oil ratio and the reaction time. The highest methyl ester yield (&gt;95%) was obtained for a reaction time of 24 h, a catalyst to oil ratio of 18 wt.%, and a methanol to oil molar ratio of 12:1. The properties of produced biodiesel complied with the ASTM specifications. The catalytic stability test showed that 35KOH/ZSM5 was stable for 3 consecutive runs. Characterization of the spent catalyst indicated that a slight deactivation might be due to the leaching of potassium oxides active sites. .

Upgrading of aromatic compounds in bio-oil over ultrathin graphene encapsulated Ru nanoparticles
Fast pyrolysis of biomass for bio-oil production is a direct route to renewable liquid fuels, but raw bio-oil must be upgraded in order to remove easily polymerized compounds (such as phenols and furfurals). Herein, a synthesis strategy for graphene encapsulated Ru nanoparticles (NPs) on carbon sheets (denoted as Ru@G-CS) and their excellent performance for the upgrading of raw bio-oil were reported. Ru@G-CS composites were prepared via the direct pyrolysis of mixed glucose, melamine and RuCl3 at varied temperatures (500-800 °C). Characterization indicated that very fine Ru NPs (2.5 ± 1.0 nm) that were encapsulated within 1-2 layered N-doped graphene were fabricated on N-doped carbon sheets (CS) in Ru@G-CS-700 (pyrolysis at 700 °C). And the Ru@G-CS-700 composite was highly active and stable for hydrogenation of unstable components in bio-oil (31 samples including phenols, furfurals and aromatics) even in aqueous media under mild conditions. This work provides a new protocol to the utilization of biomass, especially for the upgrading of bio-oil. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2016.

Enhancement of ethanol-oxygen biofuel cell output using a CNT based nano-composite as bioanode
The present research, describes preparation and application of a novel bioanode for ethanol-oxygen biofuel cells. We applied an enzyme based nanocomposite consisting of polymethylene green as electron transfer mediator, carboxylated-multiwall carbon nanotubes as electron transfer accelerator, alcohol dehydrogenase as biocatalyst and polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride as supporting agent. In the presence of β-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide as cofactor, and ethanol as fuel, the feasibility of the bioanode for increasing the power was evaluated under the ambient conditions. In the optimum conditions the biofuel cell produced the power density of 1.713 mWcm-2 and open circuit voltage of 0.281V. Elsevier B.V.

Exergy-based performance analysis of a continuous stirred bioreactor for ethanol and acetate fermentation from syngas via Wood-Ljungdahl pathway
In this work, a thermodynamic framework was proposed to achieve improved process understanding of ethanol and acetate fermentation in a continuous stirred tank bioreactor from syngas through the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. The bioreactor performance was evaluated using both conventional exergy and eco-exergy principles to identify the effect of different operational parameters i.e. agitation speeds and liquid media flow rates as well as syngas volume flow rates and its composition on the sustainability and renewability of the process. The exergy efficiency of the bioreactor was found to be in the range of 8.14-89.51% and 8.86-89.52% using the conventional exergy and eco-exergy concepts, respectively. The maximum exergetic productivity index was found to be 6.82 and 6.90 using the conventional exergy and eco-exergy concepts, respectively, at agitation speed of 450rpm, liquid media flow rate of 0.55ml/min, and syngas volume flow rate of 8ml/min containing 10% CO2, 15% Ar, 20% H2, and 55% CO. In general, the exergetic performance parameters computed using both concepts under the studied conditions did not display significant differences because of the low volume of the bioreactor and slow growth rate of the microorganisms. The results of the present study showed that exergy concept and its extensions could undoubtedly play a strategic role in assessing biofuel production pathways with respect to the issues currently of major interest in the renewable energy industry, i.e., sustainability and productively. .

Microwave-Assisted γ-Valerolactone Production for Biomass Lignin Extraction: A Cascade Protocol
The general need to slow the depletion of fossil resources and reduce carbon footprints has led to tremendous effort being invested in creating "greener" industrial processes and developing alternative means to produce fuels and synthesize platform chemicals. This work aims to design a microwave-assisted cascade process for a full biomass valorisation cycle. GVL (γ-valerolactone), a renewable green solvent, has been used in aqueous acidic solution to achieve complete biomass lignin extraction. After lignin precipitation, the levulinic acid (LA)-rich organic fraction was hydrogenated, which regenerated the starting solvent for further biomass delignification. This process does not requires a purification step because GVL plays the dual role of solvent and product, while the reagent (LA) is a product of biomass delignification. In summary, this bio-refinery approach to lignin extraction is a cascade protocol in which the solvent loss is integrated into the conversion cycle, leading to simplified methods for biomass valorisation. by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.

Strategic role of nanotechnology for production of bioethanol and biodiesel
In spite of the limited sources of fossil fuels, energy demand has been considerably increased since the last century. The problems associated with global warming due to rising atmospheric greenhouse gas levels and scarcity of fossil fuels make it imperative to reduce our heavy dependency on fossil fuels. These reasons forced countries throughout the world to search for new fuel alternatives. Biofuel have gathered considerable attention due to their inherent benefits, like lower greenhouse gas emission, renewability, and sustainability. Commercially, biofuels are produced from vegetable oils, animal fats, and carbohydrates by using transesterification and fermentation. However, biofuel production suffers from high production costs and other technical barriers. Considering the environmental and economic issues, use of nanotechnology seems to be a viable solution. Nanoparticles have a number of interesting properties for the production of second-generation ethanol or transesterification of oils and fats to yield biodiesel. It is advantageous for recovery and reuse of catalysts. The present review discusses the role of nanotechnology in the production of bioethanol and biodiesel. Moreover, applications of nanoparticles for the production of biodiesel and second-generation ethanol with special reference to enzyme immobilization and chemical nano-catalysis have been described. by De Gruyter.

Preparation of zirconia supported basic nanocatalyst: A physicochemical and kinetic study of biodiesel production from soybean oil
Zirconia supported cadmium oxide basic nanocatalyst was prepared by simple co-precipitation method using aq. ammonia as precipitating reagent. The catalyst was characterised by X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy technique (TEM), Brunauer-Emmet-Teller surface area measurement (BET), temperature program desorption (TPD-CO2) etc. The transesterificaton of soybean oil with methanol into biodiesel was catalysed by employing zirconia supported nanocatalyst. Kinetics of transesterificaton of oil was studied and obeyed the pseudo first order equation. While, the activation energy (Ea) for the transesterification of oil was found to be 41.18 kJ mol–1. The 97% yield of biodiesel was observed using 7% catalyst loading (with respect of oil), 1:40 molar ratio of oil to methanol at 135°C. by Japan Oil Chemists’ Society.

Kinetics and equilibria of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF) sequestration from algal hydrolyzate using granular activated carbon
BACKGROUND: 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF), the major by-product in hydrolyzates from lignocelluloses and algal biomass, is known as an inhibitor of several microorganisms as well as a promising precursor for biorefinery. In this study, the feasibility of 5-HMF sequestration was investigated using granular activated carbon (GAC) as the adsorbent. RESULTS: Equilibria for the 5-HMF adsorption onto GAC were derived. Positive isosteric heat values showed the reaction was exothermic and favored at low temperature. The pseudo-second order dynamics and the estimated activation energy, 227.4 kJ mol-1, implied that the removal mechanism would be chemical adsorption. The adsorption was not interfered with by the presence of sugar and sugar compounds were not adsorbed onto GAC. CONCLUSION: Batch and column tests on dilute acid hydrolyzate of red algal biomass showed that GAC adsorption would be a feasible option for sequestration of 5-HMF in hydrolyzate for the biofuel and biorefinery industries. Society of Chemical Industry Society of Chemical Industry.

One-Pot Route to Gold Nanoparticles Embedded in Electrospun Carbon Fibers as an Efficient Catalyst Material for Hybrid Alkaline Glucose Biofuel Cells
Traditional strategies to develop Au metal nanoparticle catalysts for glucose oxidation comprise Au nanoparticles (NPs) supported on electrode surfaces. In this work, the fabrication of a new material capable of acting as an abiotic anode for the electrooxidation of glucose was developed. The material is composed of electrospun carbon fibers containing gold nanoparticles formed insitu from a polyacrylonitrile (PAN) solution with HAuCl4. This approach allows the pre-reduction of the gold salt by PAN under mild conditions without the need for extra energy and leads to very stable carbon-gold bonding with well-dispersed AuNPs, not previously reported. The gold-modified carbon fibers (Au@CFs) were characterized by SEM, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, XRD, and electrochemical analysis. The Au@CF electrodes showed electrochemical activity toward glucose oxidation in alkaline media. Combined to a bilirubin oxidase modified biocathode (BOD@CFs), the resulting hybrid glucose biofuel cell showed open-circuit voltage and power density values of 0.75V and 65μWcm-2, respectively, which remained intact after 3weeks. Fueling the future: A new strategy is used to prepare Au metal nanoparticle catalysts incorporated insitu in electrospun carbon nanofibers for the electrooxidation of glucose in hybrid glucose biofuel cells (h-GBFCs). Substantial long-term stability of the h-GBFCs is highlighted (MWNTs=multiwall nanotubes, BOD=bilirubin oxidase, CF=carbon fibers). WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Biodiesel synthesis from Hevea brasiliensis oil employing carbon supported heterogeneous catalyst: Optimization by Taguchi method
The present work illustrates the parametric effects on biodiesel production from Hevea brasiliensis oil (HBO) using flamboyant pods derived carbonaceous heterogeneous catalyst. Activated carbon (AC) was prepared maintaining 500 °C for 1 h and steam activated at optimised values of activation time 1.5 h and temperature 350 °C. Carbonaceous support was impregnated with KOH at different AC/KOH ratios. The transesterification process was optimized and significant parameters affecting the biodiesel yield was identified by Taguchi method considering four parameters viz. reaction time, reaction temperature, methanol to oil ratio and catalyst loading. The physicochemical properties of Hevea brasiliensis methyl ester (HBME) were examined experimentally at optimised condition and found to meet the global American standards for testing and materials (ASTM). The optimum condition observed to yield 89.81% of biodiesel were: reaction time 60 min, reaction temperature 55 °C, catalyst loading 3.5wt% and methanol to oil ratio 15:1. Contribution factor revealed that among four parameters considered, catalyst loading and methanol to oil ratio have more prominent effect on biodiesel yield. The cost for preparing carbonaceous catalyst support was estimated and observed to be fairly impressive. Thus, Hevea brasiliensis oil (HBO) could be considered as suitable feedstock and flamboyant pods derived carbon as effective catalyst for production of biodiesel. .

Bi (NO3)3·5H2O and cellulose mediated Cu-NPs - A highly efficient and novel catalytic system for aerobic oxidation of alcohols to carbonyls and synthesis of DFF from HMF
A highly efficient and versatile catalytic system for oxidation of primary and secondary aromatic alcohols to carbonyls has been developed. High efficiency, general synthetic applicability, broader functional group tolerance and versatility towards oxidation of both primary and secondary aromatic alcohols are the key features of this green and sustainable protocol. Selective oxidation of 5-hydroxymethyl furfural (HMF) to biofuel 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF) has been observed in excellent yields. Use of sustainable bio-polymer cellulose as a Cu-nanoparticle support makes the catalytic system environmentally benign. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Integrated Conversion of Hemicellulose and Furfural into γ-Valerolactone over Au/ZrO2 Catalyst Combined with ZSM-5
The high-yield synthesis of the biofuel γ-valerolactone (GVL) is a challenging task, which currently stems from the depolymerization of cellulose to levulinic acid, followed by its hydrogenation. We have developed a novel integrated process for the production of GVL from hemicellulose without using liquid acids and external hydrogen. The hemicellulose feed underwent hydrolysis and consecutive dehydration to produce furfural over ZSM-5 catalyst. Subsequently, the formed furfural with 2-propanol performed tandem conversion to GVL over Au/ZrO2 catalyst combined with ZSM-5. This process gave a high yield of GVL under mild conditions: up to 61.5% based on hemicellulose. The outstanding performance was mainly ascribed to the strong interface interaction of Au with ZrO2 species, large amounts of medium-strength acid sites over ZSM-5, and efficient synergy between active metal and acid sites. American Chemical Society.

Three-dimensional Porous Palladium Foam-like Nanostructures as Electrocatalysts for Glucose Biofuel Cells
Three-dimensional (3D) porous palladium (Pd) nanostructures are electrodeposited by using the improved hydrogen template protocol, involving a key step of the potential pulse. In contrast to the conventional porous Pd catalysts, which are achieved by adopting the potentiostatic method in the reduction process, these 3D frameworks exhibit a unique fractal morphology and more-abundant electrochemical surface area. For the application in implantable glucose biofuel cells, the 3D porous Pd nanocatalysts show sufficient open-circuit potential (0.650±0.005V), high power density (5.7±0.4μWcm-2), and satisfying long-term stability (&lt;10% degradation 30days). This new procedure yields benefits such as rapid fabrication, mild conditions, pure products with a unique 3D porous structure, and the identical preparation technology for both the anode and cathode. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Design of plurimetallic catalysts for solid biomass conversion: Batch versus continuous reactors
Catalysts composed of plurimetallic particles (Cu, Ni and Ru) supported on Keggin type polyanion salts (Cs2.5H0.5PW12O40) are synthesized and characterized by various physicochemical techniques. Several catalysts have been prepared in this view by varying the metal content. The organic yield obtained with CuNi2Ru1@ CsPW catalyst (ca. 30 wt.%) is two times higher than the one found for the bimetallic CuRu1@CsPW and close to the activity of CuRu2@CsPWmaterial. In the batch reactor, a high yield of good quality biofuel is obtained. However, the catalyst reusability is compromised due to high thermal treatment required for the charcoal removal fromthe surface of the materialwhich causes catalyst degradation and particles sintering.Moreover, the accumulation of ashes on the catalyst surface decreases the active species accessibility. To avoid the contamination of the catalystwith ashes and charcoal, hydrotreatment process is combined with slowpyrolysis of biomass. Indeed, the pyrolysis oil resulted from thermal decomposition of biomass is treated in a fixed bed reactor containing CuNi2Ru1@CsPW. In this case, the catalytic activity is low, only 15 wt.% of biofuel is obtained, but the activity is stable even after four catalytic cycles. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Laccase-modified gold nanorods for electrocatalytic reduction of oxygen
The multicopper oxidase Trametes hirsuta laccase (ThLc) served as a bioelectrocatalyst on nanostructured cathodes. Nanostructuring was provided by gold nanorods (AuNRs), which were characterized and covalently attached to electrodes made of low-density graphite. The nanostructured electrode was the scaffold for covalent and oriented attachment of ThLc. The bioelectrocatalytic currents measured for oxygen reductionwere as high as 0.5 mA/cm2 and 0.7 mA/cm2, which were recorded under direct and mediated electron transfer regimes, respectively. The experimental data were fitted to mathematical models showing that when the O2 is bioelectroreduced at high rotation speed of the electrode the heterogeneous electron transfer step is the rateliming stage. The electrochemical measurement hints a wider population of non-optimally wired laccases than previously reported for 5-8 nmsize Au nanoparticle-modified electrode, which could be due to a larger size of the AuNRs when compared to the laccases as well as their different crystal facets. Elsevier B.V.

Catalytic performance of a novel amphiphilic alkaline ionic liquid for biodiesel production: Influence of basicity and conductivity
Three novel alkaline guanidine ionic liquids as amphiphilic catalysts have been successfully synthesized for two-phase transesterification, which can efficiently improve the catalytic activity for the synthesis of biodiesel. They were characterized by a series of techniques including 1H NMR, thermal stability, electronegativity (DFT calculation), basicity and conductivity. It was demonstrated that 1,1,3,3-trimethyl-2-octyl-guanidine hydroxide(IL3) exhibited better catalytic activity compared with other base guanidine ionic liquid catalysts, which was related to the better basicity and electronegativity of the ILs. The experimental results indicated that catalytic performance was relative to both enough alkaline center and conductivity of ionic liquid catalysts, but the former was a main factor in the catalytic system. The catalytic performance also revealed that optimum catalyst dosage was about 6 wt.%, the appropriate reaction temperature was about 55 °C, the optimum n(Methanol)/n(Soybean Oil) for the biodiesel synthesis was about 15:1 and the suitable reaction time was 4 h on the basis of biodiesel yield of 97%. In addition, the reaction mechanism of the amphiphilic catalyst was illuminated by the interaction between the methoxyl group and the carbonyl group of the triglyceride after activating for two-phase transesterification. .

Design of Compact Biomimetic Cellulose Binding Peptides as Carriers for Cellulose Catalytic Degradation
The conversion of biomass into biofuels can reduce the strategic vulnerability of petroleum-based systems and at the same time have a positive effect on global climate issues. Lignocellulose is the cheapest and most abundant source of biomass and consequently has been widely considered as a source for liquid fuel. However, despite ongoing efforts, cellulosic biofuels are still far from commercial realization, one of the major bottlenecks being the hydrolysis of cellulose into simpler sugars. Inspired by the structural and functional modularity of cellulases used by many organisms for the breakdown of cellulose, we propose to mimic the cellulose binding domain (CBD) and the catalytic domain of these proteins by small molecular entities. Multiple copies of these mimics could subsequently be tethered together to enhance hydrolytic activity. In this work, we take the first step toward achieving this goal by applying computational approaches to the design of efficient, cost-effective mimetics of the CBD. The design is based on low molecular weight peptides that are amenable to large-scale production. We provide an optimized design of four short (i.e., ∼18 residues) peptide mimetics based on the three-dimensional structure of a known CBD and demonstrate that some of these peptides bind cellulose as well as or better than the full CBD. The structures of these peptides were studied by circular dichroism and their interactions with cellulose by solid phase NMR. Finally, we present a computational strategy for predicting CBD/peptide-cellulose binding free energies and demonstrate its ability to provide values in good agreement with experimental data. Using this computational model, we have also studied the dissociation pathway of the CBDs/peptides from the surface of cellulose. American Chemical Society.

Direct Conversion of Sugars and Ethyl Levulinate into γ-Valerolactone with Superparamagnetic Acid-Base Bifunctional ZrFeOx Nanocatalysts
Acid-base bifunctional superparamagnetic FeZrOx nanoparticles were synthesized via a two-step process of solvothermal treatment and hydrolysis-condensation, and were further employed to catalyze the conversion of ethyl levulinate (EL) to γ-valerolactone (GVL) using ethanol as both H-donor and solvent. ZrFeO(1:3)-300 nanoparticles (12.7 nm) with Fe3O4 core covered by ZrO2 layer (0.65 nm thickness) having well-distributed acid-base sites (0.39 vs 0.28 mmol/g), moderate surface area (181 m2/g), pore size (9.8 nm), and strong magnetism (35.4 Am2 kg-1) exhibited superior catalytic performance, giving a high GVL yield of 87.2% at 230 °C in 3 h. The combination of the nanoparticles with solid acid HY2.6 promoted the direct transformation of sugars to produce GVL in moderate yield (around 45%). Moreover, the nanocatalyst was easily recovered by a magnet for six cycles with an average GVL yield of 83.9% from EL. American Chemical Society.

Kinetics of microwave-based ionic liquid-mediated catalytic conversion of Ricinus communis to biofuel products
The main objective of this work is to determine the kinetics of a fast, economically viable process for the conversion of lignocellulose (Ricinus communis) to fuel products such as 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) - the platform chemical, along with the production of glucose for bioethanol production. Here, we perform ionic liquid ([BMIM]Cl) based catalytic conversion of Ricinus communis (Castor leaves/tree mixtures) under the influence of microwave radiations with CuCl2 as a catalyst in a microwave reactor. The lignocellulosic substrate is first depolymerized into glucose, which then converts to HMF that further dissociates into levulinc acid (LA) and formic acid (FA). We focus on experimental determination of the optimal water addition and microwave heating profile (temperature and pressure) for maximizing the HMF yield from Ricinus communis in [BMIM]Cl aided with CuCl2 catalyst. Our kinetic model along with a Power Law model (for the dehydration of HMF and conversion of HMF to LA) and Biphasic Model (for lignocellulose hydrolysis) for quantifying the temporal dynamics of glucose and HMF production uses our understanding of the crucial role that water plays in determining the product distribution. The effect of pre-treatment on the lignocellulosic substrate has also been analyzed using FESEM (pore structure, size and density), BET (pore-surface analysis), Particle Size Analyser and XRD (extent of crystallinity). The microwave reactor helps align the dipoles in the electromagnetic field created by the combination of ionic liquid and microwave radiation, thus reducing the total reaction time drastically to 35 - 50 min, while our novel water addition strategy allows us to manipulate the production distribution for maximizing the conversion of lignocelluloses to HMF via glucose. Copyright, AIDIC Servizi S.r.l.

Effective conversion of biomass-derived ethyl levulinate into γ-valerolactone over commercial zeolite supported Pt catalysts
The synthesis of γ-valerolactone from biomass-derived ethyl levulinate is of great importance for biomass conversion. However, development of efficient catalytic systems which are simple, commercially available, easy for preparation, and large-scale for the hydrogenation of ethyl levulinate to afford γ-valerolactone is still necessary. Here, a series of commercial zeolite supported catalysts were synthesized by using a wet impregnation method for the systemic investigation of the hydrogenation of biomass-derived ethyl levulinate. High yield and selectivity towards GVL were achieved and varied and systematic characterizations including XRD, XPS, TEM and BET were used to investigate these catalysts. The influence of different reaction condition parameters was also investigated and discussed. The construction of zeolite supported catalysts showed broad prospects for the conversion of biomass into biofuels. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Efficient enzyme-catalysed transesterification of microalgal biomass from Chlamydomonas sp.
Facing the global issues of dwindling oil reserves and global warming, the search for alternative green energy source has become a priority. Microalgal biofuels has been regarded as a potential sustainable energy source, due to the high oil yield per area of land, ease of culturing microalgae, zero net carbon emission and reduced competition for arable land. In this paper, five different lipid extraction methods were studied using dry biomass of the microalga Chlamydomonas sp. Folch et al. method gave the highest oil yield of 26.27 wt%. The extracted microalgal oil underwent transesterification process using immobilised lipases. The highest conversion achieved was 72.09% in the following optimized conditions: 0.100 g of immobilised enzymes and solvent to methanol volume ratio of 1:1 with tert-butanol as the organic solvent. 

Perovskite type oxide-supported Ni catalysts for the production of 2,5-dimethylfuran from biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural
The hydrogenolysis of C-O and CO in 5-hydroxymethylfurfural for the production of furan biofuel 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) is of great importance for biomass refining. However, development of non-noble metal-based catalysts which perform stably for this process is still challenging. Here, perovskite-supported Ni catalysts were used for the hydrogenolysis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural at 230 °C, with 98.3% yield of DMF being obtained. The effects of reaction conditions such as temperature and pressure were investigated and discussed, and the catalyst could maintain good activity after being used at least 5 times. In order to further explore the reaction mechanism, dynamic experiments at different times were carried out and a possible reaction pathway was proposed. The development of efficient perovskite-supported Ni catalysts verified their great potential in biomass conversion. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Enhanced power generation using nano cobalt oxide anchored nitrogen-decorated reduced graphene oxide as a high-performance air-cathode electrocatalyst in biofuel cells
So far, the effect of the carbon matrix on ORR catalytic efficiency over carbon/cobalt oxide nanohybrids in biofuel cells has not been investigated, which is vital to guiding the scientific research on ORR catalysts. Moreover, although cobalt oxide crystals have been reported with electrocatalytic activity, studies on square-like nano cobalt oxide are very few, and it has not been reported as an oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalyst, let alone used in biofuel cells. Thus, herein, square-like nano cobalt oxide anchored on nitrogen-doped graphene (NG/Co-NS), carbon nanotube (CNT/Co-NS) and carbon black (CB/Co-NS) were prepared by a one-pot hydrothermal method for the application as an ORR catalyst in microbial fuel cells (MFC). The results indicated that NG/Co-NS exhibited outstanding ORR activity with a more positive on-set potential (-0.05 V vs. Ag/AgCl) and higher limiting diffusion current (5.8 mA cm-2 at -0.8 V) than CB/Co-NS and CNT/Co-NS, attributed to the synergistic catalytic effect of NG and Co-NS. Besides, in MFC tests, the maximum power density of NG/Co-NS was improved significantly to 713.6 mW m-2, which was 24.9% higher than Pt/C (571.3 mW m-2, 0.2 mg Pt cm-2). In addition, the internal resistance of MFCs with NG/Co-NS was lower than CB/Co-NS and CNT/Co-NS, which favored the electricity generation performance. Thus, NG/Co-NS was promising material for an alternative oxygen reduction reaction electrocatalyst of Pt/C in MFCs. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Magnetized-nano catalyst KF/CaO-Fe3O4for biodiesel production from beef tallow
The nano-magnetic catalysts KF/CaO-Fe3O4 were prepared and used for the transesterification of beef tallow to produce biodiesel. The raw materials were brought as a waste material from the slaughter house. The made up catalyst was characterized with X-Ray Diffraction spectroscopy (XRD) and Thermal Gravimetric Analysis (TGA). For the investigation of the transesterification reaction various process parameters such as methanol to oil molar ratio, reaction temperature, catalyst loading and reaction time were conducted. After the process was completed, the results show that 10:1 molar ratio of methanol to oil, 5 g of catalyst, 55 °C reaction temperature and 1 h reaction time was the optimum condition to achieve a yield of 94 wt%. The catalyst used for the production of biodiesel from beef tallow shows an effective result.

Biomass gasification technology: The state of the art overview
In the last decades the interest in the biomass gasification process has increased due to the growing attention to the use of sustainable energy. Biomass is a renewable energy source and represents a valid alternative to fossil fuels. Gasification is the thermochemical conversion of an organic material into a valuable gaseous product, called syngas, and a solid product, called char. The biomass gasification represents an efficient process for the production of power and heat and the production of hydrogen and second-generation biofuels. This paper deals with the state of the art biomass gasification technologies, evaluating advantages and disadvantages, the potential use of the syngas and the application of the biomass gasification. Syngas cleaning though fundamental to evaluate any gasification technology is not included in this paper since; in the authors' opinion, a dedicated review is necessary. Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics.

Visible light mediated upgrading of biomass to biofuel
Pd and Ag nanoparticles over graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) surface, AgPd@g-C3N4, serve as an efficient catalyst for upgrading of biofuel via hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin under visible light. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2016.

Atomically thin Pt shells on Au nanoparticle cores: Facile synthesis and efficient synergetic catalysis
We present a facile synthesis protocol for atomically thin platinum (Pt) shells on top of gold (Au) nanoparticles (NPs) (Au@PtNPs) in one pot under mild conditions. The Au@PtNPs exhibited remarkable stability (&gt; 2 years) at room temperature. The synthesis, bimetallic nanostructures and catalytic properties were thoroughly characterized by ultraviolet-visible light spectrophotometry, transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and electrochemistry. The 8 ± 2 nm Au@PtNPs contained 24 ± 1 mol% Pt and 76 ± 1 mol% Au corresponding to an atomically thin Pt shell. Electrochemical data clearly show that the active surface is dominated by Pt with a specific surface area above 45 m2 per gram of Pt. Interactions with the Au core increase the activity of the Pt shell by up to 55% and improve catalytic selectivity compared to pure Pt. The Au@Pt NPs show exciting catalytic activity in electrooxidation of sustainable fuels (i.e. formic acid, methanol and ethanol), and selective hydrogenation of benzene derivatives. Especially high activity was achieved for formic acid oxidation, 549 mA (mgPt)-1 (at 0.6 V vs. SCE), which is 3.5 fold higher than a commercial &lt; 5 nm PtNP catalyst. Excellent activity for the direct production of γ-valerolactone, an alternative biofuel/fuel additive, from levulinic acid and methyl levulinate was finally demonstrated. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Hydrodeoxygenation of pyrolysis oil for hydrocarbon production using nanospring based catalysts
Nickel (Ni) and ruthenium (Ru) decorated nanosprings (Ni-NS and Ru-NS) were prepared for use as potential hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) catalysts. The nanocatalysts were characterized by BET surface area measurements, electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction (XRD) and showed the NSs had a helical and mesoporous structure. The Ni and Ru decorated NSs showed good metal dispersity at the NS surface. Catalytic HDO conversion of phenol (model bio-oil compound) using NS were compared to conventional alumina (Al2O3) and silica (SiO2) gel catalyst supports. Ni-Al2O3 was easily deactivated in the presence of water while the Ni-NS catalysts performed very well irrespective of water being present. An increase in Ni loading (up to 50%) increased the Ni-NS activity while the high loading resulted in a detrimental effect on the activity of silica gel based catalysts. Ru based catalysts showed better activity and conversion on phenol HDO than Ni based catalysts, even in the presence of water. Ponderosa pine pyrolysis bio-oil was fractionated into water-soluble (WS) and water-insoluble (WI) fractions. The bio-oil WI fraction was first hydrocracked to lower its molar mass and then HDO treated with Ni-NS to successfully form cycloalkanes products. These NS based HDO catalysts show promise for upgrading pyrolysis bio-oils to biofuels. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Pyrolytic-deoxygenation of triglyceride via natural waste shell derived Ca(OH)2 nanocatalyst
Cracking-Deoxygenation process is one of the important reaction pathways for the production of biofuel with desirable n-C17 hydrocarbon chain via removal of oxygen compounds. Calcium-based catalyst has attracted much attention in deoxygenation process due its relatively high capacity in removing oxygenated compounds in the form of CO2 and CO under decarboxylation and decarbonylation reaction, respectively. In the present study, deoxygenation of triolein was investigated using Ca(OH)2 nanocatalyst derived from low cost natural waste shells. The Ca(OH)2 nanocatalyst was prepared via integration techniques between surfactant treatment (anionic and non-ionic) and wet sonochemical effect. Results showed that sonochemically assisted surfactant treatment has successfully enhanced the physicochemical properties of Ca(OH)2 nanocatalyst in terms of nano-particle sizes (∼50 nm), high surface area (∼130 m2 g-1), large porosity (∼18.6 nm) and strong basic strength. The presence of superior properties from surfactant treated Ca(OH)2 nanocatalysts rendered high deoxygenation degree, which are capable of producing high alkane and alkene selectivity in chain length of n-C17 (high value of C17/(n-C17 + n-C18) ratio = 0.88). Furthermore, both Ca(OH)2-EG and Ca(OH)2-CTAB nanocatalysts showed high reactivity with 47.37% and 44.50%, respectively in total liquid hydrocarbon content of triolein conversion with high H/C and low O/C ratio. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Highly dispersed Cu nanoparticles as an efficient catalyst for the synthesis of the biofuel 2-methylfuran
Cu/SiO2 catalysts were synthesized by different methods, which greatly influenced their texture and the catalytic performance. The AE-Cu/SiO2 catalyst was prepared via the ammonia evaporation method and showed a 95.5% yield for 2-methylfuran (a promising fuel additive) because of the cooperative effects of surface Cu0, Cu+ species and acid sites, which respectively stemmed from the reduction of highly dispersed CuO species, copper species that fiercely interacted with the support SiO2, and the special structure. The ammonia evaporation method favored the formation of a copper phyllosilicate phase with a lamellar structure, which could provide a large number of Cu nanoparticles and acid sites and further improve the activity and selectivity. Crucially, the stability of the AE-Cu/SiO2 catalyst (&gt;210 h) was also significantly improved due to the enhanced copper-silicon interactions, which could immobilize copper particles and resist the fast transmigration (aggregation and loss) of copper particles in the thermal treatment process. In contrast, the CP-Cu/SiO2 catalyst was synthesized via the conventional precipitation method and presented poor activity and stability toward 2-methylfuran because of large copper particles, severe aggregation and a loss of copper species during reaction. Compared with the conventional CP-Cu/SiO2 catalyst, the use of the AE-Cu/SiO2 catalyst in the synthesis of the biofuel 2-methylfuran could not only improve the yield of the desired product, but also decrease by at least 20 °C the reaction temperature which is propitious for prolonging the lifetime of the Cu/SiO2 catalyst. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2016.

Hierarchically macro-/mesoporous polymer foam as an enhanced and recyclable catalyst system for the sustainable synthesis of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural from renewable carbohydrates
Renewable and abundant carbohydrates are being strongly focused upon as a green and sustainable alternative for the production of valuable chemicals and biofuels. In this study, we chemically integrated acid-base bifunctionalized mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs-SO3H-NH2) and a macroporous polymer foam poly(HIPE) (PH) matrix that is derived from water-in-oil (W/O) high internal phase emulsion (HIPE) templating. After the subsequent sulfonation process, a SPHs@MSNs-SO3H-NH2 catalyst with a hierarchical porous structure and bifunctional sites was prepared and used for the highly efficient synthesis of top value-added 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) from renewable cellulose in an ionic liquid (i.e., 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride, [EMIM]Cl) based system. Evaluation of the catalytic activity revealed that the designed macropores were favorable for ready mass transfer, whereas the high surface area for active-site anchoring provided by the mesoporous structure was beneficial in enhancing the catalyst performance. A theoretical study also suggested that acidic and basic active sites synergistically work for the transformation reaction. Under the optimized conditions, a remarkably high HMF yield (44.5 %) was obtained efficiently. Furthermore, the as-prepared catalyst was recycled in four consecutive cycles with a total loss of only 4.9 % activity. Sweet success: Hierarchically macro-/mesoporous polymer foam has been successfully synthesized and used for the sustainable production of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF; see figure) from renewable cellulose. The as-prepared catalyst was also effective for the conversion of glucose and fructose to HMF in a DMSO/H2O system. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Direct catalytic transformation of biomass derivatives into biofuel component γ-valerolactone with magnetic nickel-zirconium nanoparticles
A series of mixed oxide nanoparticles were prepared by a coprecipitation method and characterized by many techniques. Nickel-zirconium oxide catalysts and their partially reduced magnetic counterparts were highly efficient in the direct transformation of biomass derivatives, including ethyl levulinate, fructose, glucose, cellobiose, and carboxymethyl cellulose, into γ-valerolactone (GVL) without the use of an external hydrogen source, producing a maximum GVL yield of 95.2 % at 200 °C for 3 h with hydrogen-reduced magnetic Zr5Ni5 nanoparticles (&lt;20 nm). The acid-base bifunctionality of these nanocatalysts plays a synergic role in the synthesis of GVL in alcohols, whereas appropriate control of the nickel/zirconium molar ratio is able to improve the selectivity towards GVL (≈98 %), along with high formation rates (up to 54.9 mmol g-1 h-1). Moreover, the magnetic Zr5Ni5 nanoparticles were conveniently recovered by means of a magnet for five cycles with almost constant activity. Attractive separation: Acid-base bifunctional NiZr nanocatalysts with strong magnetism show high activity and reusability in the transformation of biomass derivatives, including EL, fructose, glucose, cellobiose, and carboxymethyl cellulose, into γ-valerolactone (GVL) with 95.2 % yield and 98 % selectivity (see figure). WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Simultaneous hydrogenation and acid-catalyzed conversion of the biomass-derived furans in solvents with distinct polarities
Furfural and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), the two typical biomass-derived furans, can be converted into biofuels and value-added chemicals via hydrogenation or acid catalysis or both. The potential competition between the hydrogenation and the catalyzed-conversion of HMF and furfural has been investigated with Pd/C and Amberlyst 70 as the catalysts at 170°C in various solvents. In water, the hydrogenation of HMF or the derivatives of HMF could take place, but the acid-catalyzed conversion of HMF to the diketones (2,5-hexanedione) was the dominant reaction pathway. On the contrary, with ethanol as the solvent, the full hydrogenation of HMF to 2,5-tetrahydrofurandimethanol was the dominant route, and the acid-catalyzed routes became insignificant. The efficiency for hydrogenation of HMF was much higher in ethanol than in water. As for furfural, its hydrogenation proceeded more efficiently in the polar solvents (i.e. ethanol, diethyl ether) than in non-polar solvents (i.e. toluene): a polar solvent tended to favor the hydrogenation of the furan ring in furfural over that of the carbonyl group in the same furfural. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2016.

Experimental studies towards optimization of the production of 5-(chloromethyl)furfural (CMF) from glucose in a two-phase reactor
5-(Chloromethyl)furfural (CMF) is rapidly being established as a renewable platform chemical of great promise. The effects of mass transfer, reaction temperature, Hansen solvent parameters, solvent fraction, and initial glucose concentrations on yields of CMF, 5-(hydroxymethyl)furfural (HMF), 2-(hydroxyacetyl)furan (HAF), levulinic acid (LA), and humic matter were investigated in a two-phase system of 6M HCl and an organic solvent. The ability of the solvent to extract HMF from the aqueous phase is found to be critical to achieving high CMF yields. Effective solvents must possess at least a small degree of Hansen hydrogen bonding capacity, and a high polarity is beneficial. Yields of CMF and HAF decrease with increasing glucose concentration but the yield of HMF is largely unaffected. The maximum productivity of CMF is achieved at a glucose loading of ca. 1.5M across all solvent fractions tested. .

Effective conversion of carbohydrates into biofuel precursor 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) over Cr-incorporated mesoporous zirconium phosphate
Catalytic conversion of carbohydrates into the platform chemical 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is an important reaction in biomass conversion. In this work, the catalytic conversion of carbohydrates into HMF was studied over a heterogeneous chromium-exchanged zirconium phosphate catalyst (ZrP-Cr). Some important reaction parameters were studied with the aim to obtain high HMF yield from the dehydration of carbohydrates. Under optimal conditions, the dehydration of fructose afforded HMF in a high yield of 94.5%, and that was 43.2% when glucose was used as the feedstock. The recycling experiment indicated that the catalyst was stable, which indicated that catalyst can be reused by six times without significant loss of its catalytic activity. Elsevier B.V..

Recent advances for the production of hydrocarbon biofuel via deoxygenation progress
The current world energy crisis and increasing environmental concerns over global climate change from combusting fossil fuel are driving researchers into a new route to produce fuels via sustainable resource to meet the demands of human. In recent years, deoxygenation as an alternative method has been applied in the production of hydrocarbon fuels, particularly via the deoxygenation of fatty acids and triglycerides from seed oils and fats, producing hydrocarbon fuels entirely fungible with fossil fuels. The deoxygenation of biobased feedstock to fuel-like hydrocarbons is critically reviewed in this article. The review mainly discusses the use of feedstock, innovation of catalysts, and the reaction mechanism involved in the production of hydrocarbon fuels via deoxygenation progress., Science China Press and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.

Effect of silica and alumina promoters on co-precipitated Fe-Cu-K based catalysts for the enhancement of CO2 utilization during Fischer-Tropsch synthesis
Silica and alumina were used as structural promoters to increase the catalytic activity of a co-precipitated Fe-Cu-K catalyst for the CO2 and CO hydrogenation during Fischer-Tropsch (FT) synthesis. The doubly-promoted Fe-Cu-K-Si-Al catalyst achieved higher CO and CO2 conversions than the Fe-Cu-K catalyst and singly-promoted Fe-Cu-K-Al and Fe-Cu-K-Si catalysts. The CO and CO2 conversions of the syngas with 54% H2/10% CO/29% CO2/7% N2 over the doubly-promoted catalyst were 88.3% and 25.2%, respectively, compared to 81.8% and 18.5% for the Fe-Cu-K catalyst. In this case, the C5+ selectivity of the doubly-promoted catalyst was 71.9%, which was slightly lower than 75.5% for the Fe-Cu-K catalyst. The CO2 was converted to hydrocarbons using the doubly-promoted catalyst when the CO2/(CO + CO2) ratio was higher than 0.35 for H2-balanced syngas at H2/(2CO + 3CO2) = 1.0, and 0.5 for H2-deficient syngas at H2/(2CO + 3CO2) = 0.5. The increase of hydrogen content in the syngas increased the methane selectivity at the expense of decrease in the liquid hydrocarbon selectivity. . All rights reserved.

Catalytic effect of ultrananocrystalline Fe3O4 on algal bio-crude production via HTL process
We report a comprehensive quantitative study of the production of refined bio-crudes via a controlled hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) process using Ulva fasciata macroalgae (UFMA) as biomass and ultrananocrystalline Fe3O4 (UNCFO) as catalyst. X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy were applied to elucidate the formation of the high-quality nanocatalysts. Gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) and CHNS analyses showed that the bio-crude yield and carbon/oxygen ratios increase as the amount of UNCFO increases, reaching a peak value of 32% at 1.25 wt% (a 9% increase when compared to the catalyst-free yield). The bio-crude is mainly composed of fatty acids, alcohols, ketones, phenol and benzene derivatives, and hydrocarbons. Their relative abundance changes as a function of catalyst concentration. FTIR spectroscopy and vibrating sample magnetometry revealed that the as-produced bio-crudes are free of iron species, which accumulate in the generated bio-chars. Our findings also indicate that the energy recovery values via the HTL process are sensitive to the catalyst loading, with a threshold loading of 1.25 wt%. GC-MS studies show that the UNCFO not only influences the chemical nature of the resulting bio-crudes and bio-chars, but also the amount of fixed carbons in the solid residues. The detailed molecular characterization of the bio-crudes and bio-chars catalyzed by UNCFO represents the first systematic study reported using UFMA. This study brings forth new avenues to advance the highly-pure bio-crude production employing active, heterogeneous catalyst materials that are recoverable and recyclable for continuous thermochemical reactions. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015.

Advanced Electrocatalysts on the Basis of Bare Au Nanomaterials for Biofuel Cell Applications
We report a drastic enhancement of electrocatalytic activity toward glucose oxidation by using novel electrocatalysts on the basis of "bare" unprotected Au nanoparticles synthesized by methods of laser ablation in pure deionized water. The recorded current density of 2.65 A cm-2 mg-1 for glucose electrooxidation was higher than a relevant value for conventional chemically synthesized Au nanoparticles by an order of magnitude and outperformed all data reported in the literature for metal and metal alloy-based electrocatalysts. The enhanced electrocatalytic characteristics of laser-synthesized nanoparticles are explained by the absence of any organic contaminants or protective ligands on their surface, the relatively small size of nanoparticles, and their particular crystallographic structure. The employment of bare nanomaterials in glucose electrooxidation schemes promises a radical improvement in current biofuel cell technology and its successful application in bioimplantable devices. American Chemical Society.

One-Pot Defunctionalization of Lignin-Derived Compounds by Dual-Functional Pd50Ag50/Fe3O4/N-rGO Catalyst
Generation of hydrogen from renewable sources and its safe utilization for efficient one-pot upgrading of renewable biofuels are a challenge. Bimetallic PdAg catalyst supported on Fe3O4/nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide (N-rGO) were synthesized for hydrogen generation from formic acid with high TOF (497 h-1 at 50 °C), and the hydrogen was subsequently utilized in situ for selective defunctionalization of lignin-derived chemicals with preserved aromatic nature at ambient pressure. Hydrodeoxygenation of aromatic aldehydes and ketones gave excellent yields (99% at 130 °C) with no use of additives. Furthermore, hydrogenolysis of β-O-4 and α-O-4 C-O model compounds produced only two products with high selectivity at 120 °C, which is an efficient and versatile one-pot platform for valorization of lignin biomass. American Chemical Society.

A non-sulfided flower-like Ni-PTA catalyst that enhances the hydrotreatment efficiency of plant oil to produce green diesel
The development of a novel non-sulfided catalyst with high activity for the hydrotreatment processing of plant oils, is of high interest as a way to improve the efficient production of renewable diesel. To attempt to develop such a catalyst, we first synthesized a high activity flower-like Ni-PTA catalyst used in the hydrotreatment processes of plant oils. The obtained catalyst was characterized with SEM, EDX, HRTEM, BET, XRD, H 2 -TPR, XPS and TGA. A probable formation mechanism of flower-like Ni(OH) 2 is proposed on the basis of a range of contrasting experiments. The results of GC showed that the conversion yield of Jatropha oil was 98.95%, and the selectivity of C11-C18 alkanes was 70.93% at 360 €‰°C, 3 €‰MPa, and 15 €‰h '1. The activity of this flower-like Ni-PTA catalyst was more than 15 times higher than those of the conventional Ni-PTA/Al 2 O 3 catalysts. Additionally, the flower-like Ni-PTA catalyst exhibited good stability during the process of plant oil hydrotreatment.

Algae cultivation in wastewater for biodiesel - A review
Global concern for energy security and environmental sustainability has put a great prominence towards alternative energy resources, substituting the rapidly-depleting fossil fuels. Fossil fuels have been a major contributing factor for greenhouse gas production, leading to global warming. Hence, biofuels have been greatly researched in hopes to replace fossil fuels. One remarkable biofuel producer is microalgae, due to their high biomass productions, high cellular lipid accumulation, as well as the ability to sequester carbon dioxide from waste gas and remove pollutants from wastewater. Integration of wastewater as the medium for algal cultivation offers a green and cost-effective way for sustainable biofuel production. The zero-cost palm oil mill effluent (POME) in Malaysia will be an option for microalgae cultivation due to the high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus. Microalgae are able to survive in wastewater by utilizing the nutrients for growth. This has the potential to achieve economical microalgae production for bioenergy, while promoting environmental sustainability. Copyright, AIDIC Servizi S.r.l.,.

One-Pot 2-Methyltetrahydrofuran Production from Levulinic Acid in Green Solvents Using Ni-Cu/Al2O3 Catalysts
The one-pot hydrogenation of levulinic acid to 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (MTHF) was performed using a series of Ni-Cu/Al2O3 catalysts in green solvents, such as water and biomass-derived alcohols. Ni/Al2O3 provided the highest activity, whereas Cu/Al2O3 was the most selective, reaching a 75% MTHF yield at 250 C after 24h reaction time. Synergetic effects were observed when bimetallic Ni-Cu/Al2O3 catalysts were used, reaching a 56% MTHF yield in 5h at 250 C for the optimum Ni/Cu ratio. Remarkably, these high yields were obtained using non-noble metal-based catalysts and 2-propanol as the solvent. The catalytic activity and selectivity results are correlated to temperature programmed reduction (TPR), XRD, and STEM characterization data, identifying the role associated with mixed Ni-Cu particles in addition to monometallic Cu and Ni. Catalytic Synergy: One-pot hydrogenation of levulinic acid to 2-methyltetrahydrofuran is performed using non-noble monometallic and bimetallic Ni-Cu/Al2O3 catalysts in water and biomass-derived alcohols. Yields up to 75% are achieved in 2-propanol as reaction solvent, and synergistic effects are observed in the bimetallic catalysts leading to high catalyst activity and selectivity. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Low temperature steam reforming of ethanol over advanced carbon nanotube-based catalysts
Steam reforming of biofuels such as bioethanol offers a clean and sustainable route to improve hydrogen production capacity for the hydrogen economy. In this work, the influence of the carbon support type (carbon nanotube [CNT], activated carbon [AC] and graphitic carbon black [GCB]) and the addition of Pt (1 wt.%, 1.5 wt.% and 2 wt.%) and ZnO (10 wt.%) to Ni10/CNT (10 wt.% Ni) are studied in steam reforming of ethanol (SRE) at low temperatures (≤450°C). The prepared CNT-based catalysts were characterized by nitrogen physisorption, X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) and energy filtered transmission electron microscopy (EFTEM) analyses. Ni supported on CNTs was found to be highly active for SRE compared to other conventional carbon supported catalysts. The promotional effect of Pt in the Ni10Ptx/CNT catalysts was found to be unexpectedly insignificant in terms of ethanol conversion, hydrogen production and selectivity. By contrast, the hybrid (ZnO)10Ni10/CNT catalyst showed superior catalytic performance below 450°C with high H2 selectivity and low CO selectivity compared to all other CNT-based catalysts. The Ni10/CNT catalyst undergoes rapid deactivation compared to the ZnO promoted Ni10/CNT due to the large amounts of carbon deposition on the catalyst. The ZnO promoted Ni10/CNT catalyst enhances the hydrogen production and reduces the carbon formation, making the catalyst attractive for the SRE reaction. by De Gruyter.

Nannochloropsis algae pyrolysis with ceria-based catalysts for production of high-quality bio-oils
Pyrolysis of Nannochloropsis was carried out in a fixed-bed reactor with newly prepared ceria based catalysts. The effects of pyrolysis parameters such as temperature and catalysts on product yields were investigated. The amount of bio-char, bio-oil and gas products, as well as the compositions of the resulting bio-oils was determined. The results showed that both temperature and catalyst had significant effects on conversion of Nannochloropsis into solid, liquid and gas products. The highest bio-oil yield (23.28wt%) and deoxygenation effect was obtained in the presence of Ni-Ce/Al2O3 as catalyst at 500°C. Ni-Ce/Al2O3 was able to retain 59% of the alga starting energy in the bio-oil, compared to only 41% in absence of catalyst. Lower content of acids and oxygen in the bio-oil, higher aliphatics (62%), combined with HHV show promise for production of high-quality bio-oil from Nannochloropsis via Ni-Ce/Al2O3 catalytic pyrolysis. .

Biofuel steam reforming catalyst for fuel cell application
Within the ongoing project, related to fuels and energy production from biomass, agricultural and other wastes, the technology based on SOFC stack and steam reforming is under development. The project aims to present an efficient technology for biogas reforming and continuous supply of reformate fuel to the working SOFC stack. The decision, concerning reforming unit and the stack separation, has been made after detailed analysis of advantages and disadvantages of internal reforming. The set of Ni-based catalysts was prepared and investigated for the external biogas steam reforming. To determine the optimal condition of the reforming process the effect of reaction temperature (RT-773 K) for steam to carbon (S/C) molar ratio of 2.5 in the feedstock was investigated. Conversions rates and H2/CO ratios in the produced syngas were influenced by the feedstock composition and catalyst used. The increase in the catalyst activity can be attributed to the specific catalyst-promoter interactions such as the redox capacity of V2O5 and its influence on surface Ni-species. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Selective preparation of zeolite X and A from flyash and its use as catalyst for biodiesel production
This work discusses the utilization of flyash for synthesis of heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification. Different types of zeolites were synthesized from alkali fusion followed by hydrothermal treatment of coal flyash as source material. The synthesis conditions were optimized to obtain highly crystalline zeolite based on degree of crystallinity and cation exchange capacity (CEC). The effect of CEC, acid treatment, Si/Al ratio and calcination temperature (800, 900 and 1000. °C) on zeolite formation was also studied. Pure, single phase and highly crystalline zeolite was obtained at flyash/NaOH ratio (1:1.2), fusion temperature (550. °C), fusion time (1. h), hydrothermal temperature (110. °C) and hydrothermal time (12. h). The synthesized zeolite was ion-exchanged with potassium and was used as catalyst for transesterification of mustard oil to obtain a maximum conversion of 84.6% with 5. wt% catalyst concentration, 12:1 methanol to oil molar ratio, reaction time of 7. h at 65. °C. The catalyst was reused for 3 times with marginal reduction in activity. Elsevier B.V.

Synthesis of ferric-manganese doped tungstated zirconia nanoparticles as heterogeneous solid superacid catalyst for biodiesel production from waste cooking oil
The solid superacid catalyst ferric-manganese doped tungstated zirconia (FMWZ) nanoparticles was prepared by impregnation reaction followed by calcination at 600°C for 3 hr and had been characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), temperature programmed desorption of NH3 (TPD-NH3), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and Brunner-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area measurement. The transesterification reaction was used to determine the optimum conditions of methanolysis of waste cooking oil with FMWZ nanoparticles as heterogeneous solid superacid catalyst. The reactions variables such as reaction temperatures, catalyst loading, molar ratio of methanol/oil and reusability were also assessed which effects the waste cooking oil methyl esters (WCOMEs) production yield. The catalyst was reused ten times without any loss in activity and maximum yield of 96% was achieved at the optimized conditions of reaction temperature of 200°C; stirring speed of 600 rpm, 1:25 molar ratio of oil to alcohol and 4% w/w catalyst loading. The fuel properties of the WCOMEs were discussed in light of ASTM D6751 biodiesel standard. Copyright Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Transition metal phosphide nanoparticles supported on SBA-15 as highly selective hydrodeoxygenation catalysts for the production of advanced biofuels
A series of catalysts constituted by nanoparticles of transition metal (M = Fe, Co, Ni and Mo) phosphides (TMP) dispersed on SBA-15 were synthesized by reduction of the corresponding metal phosphate precursors previously impregnated on the mesostructured support. All the samples contained a metal-loading of 20 wt% and with an initial M/P mole ratio of 1, and they were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), N2 sorption, H2-TPR and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Metal phosphide nanocatalysts were tested in a high pressure continuous flow reactor for the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of a methyl ester blend containing methyl oleate (C17H33-COO-CH3) as main component (70%). This mixture constitutes a convenient surrogate of triglycerides present in vegetable oils, and following catalytic hydrotreating yields mainly n-alkanes. The results of the catalytic assays indicate that Ni2P/SBA-15 catalyst presents the highest ester conversion, whereas the transformation rate is about 20% lower for MoP/SBA-15. In contrast, catalysts based on Fe and Co phosphides show a rather limited activity. Hydrocarbon distribution in the liquid product suggests that both hydrodeoxygenation and decarboxylation/decarbonylation reactions occur simultaneously over the different catalysts, although MoP/SBA-15 possess a selectivity towards hydrodeoxygenation exceeding 90%. Accordingly, the catalyst based on MoP affords the highest yield of n-octadecane, which is the preferred product in terms of carbon atom economy. Subsequently, in order to conjugate the advantages of both Ni and Mo phosphides, a series of catalysts containing variable proportions of both metals were prepared. The obtained results reveal that the mixed phosphides catalysts present a catalytic behavior intermediate between those of the monometallic phosphides. Accordingly, only marginal enhancement of the yield of n-octadecane is obtained for the catalysts with a Mo/Ni ratio of 3. Nevertheless, owing to this high selectivity for hydrodeoxygenation MoP/SBA-15 appears as a very promising catalyst for the production of advanced biofuels. Copyright American Scientific Publishers.

Biodiesel synthesis over millimetric γ-Al2O3/KI catalyst
The use of spherical millimetric gamma-alumina (γ-Al2O3) as a catalyst support for the production of biodiesel from palm oil was demonstrated. The catalyst support was produced using dripping method, and KI catalyst was loaded on the support using impregnation method. The highest FAME (fatty acid methyl ester) yield of 98% was obtained when the reaction was carried out under the conditions of catalyst to oil ratio of 0.6 g (4wt.%, gcat./goil) using 0.24gKI/gγ-Al2O3 of catalyst loading, reaction time of 4 h, temperature of 60 °C and methanol to palm oil molar ratio of 14:1. XRD (X-ray diffraction) analysis showed the formation of K2O and KAlO2 phases on the KI/γ-Al2O3 catalyst which were possibly the active sites for the transesterification reaction. The highest number and strength of basic sites generated from the solid phase reaction of the KI/γ-Al2O3 catalyst loaded with 0.24 g kF/g γ-Al2O3 were confirmed by temperature programmed desorption of CO2 (CO2-TPD) analysis. The nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms was revealed a mesoporous structure of the catalysts. The leaching of potassium species in reused catalysts was observed, as verified by XRF (X-ray fluorescence). KI/γ-Al2O3 had a long life time and maintained sustained activity even after being repeatedly used for 11 cycles. The biodiesel yield was comparable to that produced from smaller catalysts. Thus, the catalyst could be potential for industrial use, as they can be handled safely, easily separated from the process fluid and used in fixed bed reactor to minimize pressure drop. .

Energy conversion from aluminium and phosphate rich solution via ZnO activation of aluminium
Electrochemical power sources have motivated intense research efforts in the development of alternative 'green' power sources for ultra-low powered bioelectronic devices. Biofuel cells employ immobilized enzymes to convert the available chemical energy of organic fuels directly into electricity. However, biofuel cells are limited by short lifetime due to enzyme inactivation and frequent need to incorporate mediators to shuttle electrons to the final electron acceptor. In this context, other electrochemical power sources are necessary in energy conversion and storage device applications. Here we report on the fabrication and characterization of a membrane-free aluminium/phosphate cell based on the activation of aluminium (Al) using ZnO nanocrystal in an Al/phosphate cell as a 'green' alternative to the traditional enzymatic biofuel cells. The hybrid cell operates in neutral phosphate buffer solution and physiological saline buffer. The ZnO modifier in the phosphate rich electrolyte activated the pitting of Al resulting in the production of hydrogen, as the reducing agent for the reduction of H2PO4- ions to HPO32- ions at a formal potential of -0.250 V vs. Ag/AgCl. Specifically, the fabricated cell operating in phosphate buffer and physiological saline buffer exhibit an open-circuit voltage of 0.810 V and 0.751 V and delivered a maximum power density of 0.225 mW cm-2 and 1.77 mW cm-2, respectively. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of generating electricity by activating Al as anodic material in a hybrid cell supplied with phosphate rich electrolyte. Our approach simplifies the construction and operation of the electrochemical power source as a novel "green" alternative to the current anodic substrates used in enzymatic biofuel cells for low power bioelectronics applications. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Highly selective self-condensation of cyclic ketones using MOF-encapsulating phosphotungstic acid for renewable high-density fuel
Transferring biomass-derived cyclic ketones such as cyclopentanone and cyclohexanone to a mono-condensed product through aldol self-condensation has great potential for the synthesis of a renewable high-density fuel. However, the selectivity is low for numerous catalysts due to the rapid formation of di-condensed by products. Herein, MIL-101-encapsulating phosphotungstic acid is synthesized to catalyze the self-condensation with selectivity of more than 95%. PTA clusters are uniformly dispersed in MOF cages and decrease the empty space (pore size), which provides both acidic sites and shape-selective capability. The optimal PTA amount decreases corresponding to the increase of reactant size. The shape-selectivity is also realized by changing the pore size of MOF such as from MIL-101 to MIL-100. Moreover, the catalyst is resistant to PTA leaching and performs stably after 5 runs. After hydrodeoxygenation of the mono-condensed product, high-density biofuels with densities of 0.867 g ml-1 and 0.887 g ml-1 were obtained from cyclopentanone and cyclohexanone, respectively. This study not only provides a promising route for the production of high-density biofuel but also suggests the advantage of MOF-based catalysts for shape-selective catalysis involving large molecular size. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Graphene-based catalysis for biomass conversion
Graphene and its derivatives (graphene oxide and reduced graphene oxide) have attracted a great deal of attention and have been widely applied in the field of catalysis science owing to their exceptional physical properties and chemical tunability. This review focuses on the advances of graphene-based materials in catalytic transformation of biomass and platform molecules to value-added chemicals and biofuels, with emphasis on the development of these materials directly as catalysts and promising supports to anchor Brønsted acid sites in addition to metal nanoparticles. The state-of-the-art and future challenges of graphene-based catalysts in biomass utilization are also discussed. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Process optimization and kinetics of biodiesel production from neem oil using copper doped zinc oxide heterogeneous nanocatalyst
Heterogeneous nanocatalyst has become the choice of researchers for better transesterification of vegetable oils to biodiesel. In the present study, transesterification reaction was optimized and kinetics was studied for biodiesel production from neem oil using CZO nanocatalyst. The highly porous and non-uniform surface of the CZO nanocatalyst was confirmed by AFM analysis, which leads to the aggregation of CZO nanoparticles in the form of multi layered nanostructures. The 97.18% biodiesel yield was obtained in 60min reaction time at 55°C using 10% (w/w) CZO nanocatalyst and 1:10 (v:v) oil:methanol ratio. Biodiesel yield of 73.95% was obtained using recycled nanocatalyst in sixth cycle. The obtained biodiesel was confirmed using GC-MS and 1H NMR analysis. Reaction kinetic models were tested on biodiesel production, first order kinetic model was found fit with experimental data (R2=0.9452). The activation energy of 233.88kJ/mol was required for transesterification of neem oil into biodiesel using CZO nanocatalyst. .

Novel solid base catalyst for biodiesel production: Mesoporous SBA-15 silica immobilized with 1,3-dicyclohexyl-2-octylguanidine
Heterogeneous transesterification of vegetable oils offers an environmentally more attractive option for biodiesel production compared to the conventional homogeneous processes. In the work, a novel heterogeneous base catalyst was prepared by anchoring 1,3-dicyclohexyl-2-octylguanidine (DCOD) onto the mesoporous SBA-15 silica. The DCOG-functionalized SBA-15 material (SBA-15-pr-DCOG) was demonstrated to be an efficient and recyclable heterogeneous catalyst for the transesterification of soybean oil with methanol. The characterization of the catalyst was carried out using Hammett titration method, X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, thermo gravimetric and differential thermal analysis, transmission electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, nitrogen adsorption-desorption techniques. It was shown that the DCOD was successfully tethered on the SBA-15 silica and ordered mesoporous structure of SBA-15 was largely remained unchanged after the functionalization reaction. The influences of transesterification variables such as the methanol/oil molar ratio, catalyst loading, reaction time, and catalyst reusability on the oil conversion were investigated. By using the methanol/oil molar ratio of 15:1 and catalyst loading of 8wt.%, the maximum oil conversion of 92.6% was achieved over the solid catalyst at reflux of methanol for 15h. The heterogeneous base catalyst could be easily recovered and reused for several runs with a negligible loss of activity. .

Electrospun Carbon Fibers: Promising Electrode Material for Abiotic and Enzymatic Catalysis
Carbon nanofibers (CNFs) are a promising material as conducting support of catalysts in (bio)electrochemical applications. Self-standing CNFs result from the carbonization at 1200°C of electrospun polymer fibers with mean fiber diameter of 330 ± 50 nm. Such felts present interesting properties like fibrous and porous morphology to relieve the mass-transfer limitation of substrates and to provide high loadings of catalysts to enhance the electrochemical performances of the resulting electrodes. We show the beneficial feature of the CNFs as support compared with carbon dense structure for efficient immobilization of either abiotic catalysts based on metal nanoparticles or enzyme as biological catalyst. More specifically, palladium or platinum modified gold nanocatalysts remarkably boost the glucose electro-oxidation when deposited onto CNFs. Similarly, the immobilization of the bilirubin oxidase enzyme on the porous CNFs induces significant improvement of the mediated oxygen electroenzymatic reduction. The advances presented in this work show the high performance of the electrospun carbon fiber electrodes as promising materials for abiotic and enzymatic catalysis for the development of hybrid biofuel cells. American Chemical Society.

The facile fabrication of magnetite nanoparticles and their enhanced catalytic performance in Fischer-Tropsch synthesis
Uniform and crystalline magnetite nanoparticles are facilely fabricated and utilized as an efficient catalyst in Fischer-Tropsch synthesis (FTS). The catalyst exhibits a high and stable activity with low methane selectivity, attributed to its remarkable structural and chemical stability at the realistic conditions of FTS. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Biodiesel production from waste cooking oil using copper doped zinc oxide nanocomposite as heterogeneous catalyst
A novel CZO nanocomposite was synthesized and used as heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification of waste cooking oil into biodiesel using methanol as acyl acceptor. The synthesized CZO nanocomposite was characterized in FESEM with an average size of 80. nm as nanorods. The XRD patterns indicated the substitution of ZnO in the hexagonal lattice of Cu nanoparticles. The 12% (w/w) nanocatalyst concentration, 1:8 (v:v) O:M ratio, 55. °C temperature and 50. min of reaction time were found as optimum for maximum biodiesel yield of 97.71% (w/w). Hence, the use of CZO nanocomposite can be used as heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel production from waste cooking oil. .

Co-immobilization of gold nanoparticles with glucose oxidase to improve bioelectrocatalytic glucose oxidation
Abstract Recently, there has been much effort in developing metal nanoparticle catalysts for fuel oxidation, as well as the development of enzymatic bioelectrocatalysts for fuel oxidation. However, there has been little study of the synergy of hybrid electrocatalytic systems. We report the preparation of hybrid bioanodes based on Au nanoparticles supported on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) co-immobilized with glucose oxidase (GOx). Mediated electron transfer was achieved by two strategies: ferrocene entrapped within polypyrrole and a ferrocene-modified linear poly(ethylenimine) (Fc-LPEI) redox polymer. Electrochemical characterization of the Au nanoparticles supported on MWCNTs indicate that this catalyst exhibits an electrocatalytic response for glucose even in acidic conditions. Using the redox polymer Fc-LPEI as the mediator, voltammetric and amperometric data demonstrated that these bioanodes can efficiently achieve mediated electron transfer and also indicated higher catalytic currents with the hybrid bioelectrode. From the amperometry, the maximum current density (Jmax) achieved with the hybrid bioelectrode was 615 ± 39 μA cm-2, whereas the bioanode employing GOx only achieved a Jmax of 409 ± 26 μA cm-2. Biofuel cell tests are consistent with the electrochemical characterization, thus confirming that the addition of the metallic species into the bioanode structure can improve fuel oxidation and consequently, improve the power generated by the system. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Structured nanocomposite catalysts of biofuels transformation into syngas and hydrogen: Design and performance
Main features of structured catalysts performance in bio-fuels reforming into syngas at lab-scale and pilot-scale levels using specially designed reactors and kinetic installations allowing to broadly tune the operational parameters are presented. Effects of the nature of nanocomposite active component comprised of Ru + Ni nanoparticles on bulk/alumina-supported perovskite or Mn-Cr-O spinel, type of substrate (Ni-Al alloy and SiC(Al2O3)/Al-Si-O foam substrates, Fechraloy microchannel plates or gauzes protected by thin corundum layer), type of fuel (natural gas, ethanol, acetone, ethyl acetate glycerol), feed composition and temperature on yield of syngas/byproducts and performance stability are considered. The best performance in real feeds with syngas yield approaching equilibrium at short contact times without any heat/mass transfer effects along with a high thermochemical stability were demonstrated for catalyst on heat-conducting microchannel substrate. Oxygen addition to the feed in optimized amounts allows to suppress coking and stabilize performance even for the case of such reactive fuel as glycerol only slightly affecting syngas yield. Hydrogen Energy Publications, LLC.

Hydrogen and syngas production from gasification of lignocellulosic biomass in supercritical water media
Purpose: Novel biomass-processing technologies have been recently used for conversion of organic wastes into valuable biofuels like bio-hydrogen. Agricultural wastes are available and renewable energy resources to supply energy demand of the future. The purpose of this study is to investigate the production of hydrogen-rich syngas from wheat straw, walnut shell, and almond shell. Methods: Supercritical water gasification is a promising technology to convert biomass into useful fuels. Non-catalytic conversion of wheat straw, walnut shell, and almond shell into the hydrogen-rich gas in supercritical water media was performed using homemade batch microreactor system. Results: Hydrogen gas yields of 6.52, 4.26 and 4.1 mmol per 1 gram of wheat straw, walnut shell, and almond shell were observed, respectively. In addition, hydrogen and carbon gasification efficiencies equal to 42.6 and 46.9 % were calculated from gaseous products and elemental analysis of wheat straw, which were higher than other feedstocks’ gasification efficiencies. Conclusion: Wheat straw had the highest and walnut shell had the lowest total gas and hydrogen gas yields. Taking into account the structural analysis, it was recognized that feedstocks with higher cellulose and hemicellulose and lower lignin contents were better gasified due to their easier hydrolysis and higher solubility in water., The Author(s).

Efficient synthesis of promising liquid fuels 5-ethoxymethylfurfural from carbohydrates
In this study, we have developed an effective method for the conversion of carbohydrates into liquid biofuels 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) over a magnetic solid acid catalyst (Fe3O4@CSO3H). The as-prepared magnetic Fe3O4@CSO3H catalyst showed high catalytic activity toward the synthesis of EMF from carbohydrates. The etherification of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) with ethanol over Fe3O4@CSO3H catalyst produced EMF with a high yield of 88.4%. The Fe3O4@CSO3H catalyst also showed high activity toward the one-pot conversion of fructose based carbohydrates into EMF. EMF was obtained in a yield of 67.8% from fructose, and that was 58.4% from inulin. The Fe3O4@CSO3H catalyst could be easily collected by an external magnet and reused for several times without the significant loss of its catalytic activity. .

Catalytic combustion of methane, methanol, and ethanol in microscale combustors with Pt/ZSM-5 packed beds
Experiments on combustion of methane, methanol, and ethanol in packed bed combustors were performed with the ZSM-5 zeolite supported nanometer-sized Pt as the catalyst. Methane combustion was investigated in the combustors in which the lengths of catalyst beds were 40, 20, and 10 mm, respectively. The stabilization and conversion rate of methane combustion were both the highest in the combustor with a 20-mm-sized catalyst bed, thus this combustor was chosen to implement the comparative studies on combustion of methanol and ethanol. Methanol showed a wider equivalence ratio (Φ) range of stable combustion, lower conversion rates, higher CO2 selectivity and higher energy release efficiencies compared to ethanol. As Φ increased from 0.8 to 1.4, the relative conversion rate of methanol increased whereas that of ethanol decreased. The mechanism of the combustion characteristics was interpreted from the aspects of fuel feature, adsorption on active sites and chemical reactions. .

Optimizing zeolite catalysts and sieves for base oil and biofuel production
A multistep computational screening was performed for both known and predicted zeolites to identify suitable candidates for specific steps in the production of base oil and ethanol. One of the top zeolites identified in the computational screening process was prepared and evaluated, and found to be highly selective in the purification of ethanol. The material performed very well, and could help to improve the efficiency of the separation.

Conversion of sugarcane bagasse to gaseous and liquid fuels in near-critical water media using K2O promoted Cu/γ-Al2O3-MgO nanocatalysts
Bagasse conversion to H2, CO and light gaseous hydrocarbons as gaseous fuels, and higher alcohols and ethers as liquid fuels and fuel additives were performed in a basic water medium with near-critical condition in presence of potassium promoted Cu/γ-Al2O3-MgO catalysts. The catalysts were extensively characterized using ICP, XRD, TPR, BET, CO chemisorption and TEM techniques. In order to investigate support stability at reaction condition, XRD test also was carried out for used catalysts. Maximum dispersion of 48% and minimum average particles sizes of 8.4 nm were obtained for Cu20-K7.5/γ-Al2O3-MgO catalyst. Copper and potassium effects on quality and quantity of gaseous and liquid products were investigated. The maximum amounts of H2 (10 mmol g-1 of bagasse) and total produced gases (41 mmol g-1 of bagasse) were obtained with unpromoted Cu20/γ-Al2O3-MgO catalyst. Addition of K increased the bagasse conversion to liquid fuels. Potassium made the process more selective for alcohols and ethers production. Maximum amount of alcohols and ethers (83.3 mmol g-1 of bagasse) was obtained for Cu20-K7.5/γ-Al2O3-MgO catalyst. .

Molybdenum incorporated mesoporous silica catalyst for production of biofuels and value-added chemicals via catalytic fast pyrolysis
Production of value-added furans and phenols from biomass through catalytic fast pyrolysis of pine using molybdenum supported on KIT-5 mesoporous silica was explored. Catalysts containing different loadings of molybdenum were synthesized and characterized by X-ray diffraction, physisorption and chemisorption analysis, various electron microscopic techniques and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Characterization studies indicate that molybdenum is homogeneously distributed over the KIT-5 silica support in a +6 oxidation state. Fast pyrolysis of pine using molecular beam mass spectrometry with fresh Mo catalyst preferentially produced furans and phenols over conventionally observed aromatic hydrocarbons. Detailed investigation of model biopolymers indicates that the furans originated from the carbohydrate portion of the biomass and the phenols emerged predominantly from the lignin portion of biomass. Results obtained from MBMS were complemented using pyrolytic-GCMS. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015.

Electrocatalytic properties of nanomaterials synthesized from "Bromide Anion Exchange" method - Investigations of glucose and glycerol oxidation
In this work, different experimental parameters influencing the straightforward nanoparticles synthesis method, so-called Bromide Anion Exchange (BAE) were scrutinized. It was found that a bromide ion to metal(s) molar ratio of 1.5 gave the best electrochemical activity of the obtained catalysts toward the organics oxidation. The revisited BAE synthesis approach allows the preparation of highly active AuPt/C and AuPd/C nanomaterials. It has been highlighted that this method changes drastically the structure of AuPd nanostructures leading to alloyed system when Au atomic content is higher than 50%. These gold-based materials can be considered as advanced surfactant-free nanoparticles for anode electrodes design in abiotic or hybrid glucose biofuel cell. Furthermore, qualitative and quantitative analyses of glycerol conversion indicate that glycolate and glycerate are the main final products with selectivity higher than 40 and 30%, respectively. . All rights reserved.

Sandwich biobattery with enzymatic cathode and Zinc anode integrated with sensor
Carbon paper covered with side-naphthylated multi-walled carbon nanotubes was used as the conducting support for the construction of a biocathode in a hybrid biofuel cell (biobattery). Laccase Cerrena unicolor enzyme was employed as the catalyst for the 4e reduction of oxygen and a zinc disc covered with hopeite was used as the anode. Derivatized carbon nanotubes increase the working surface of the electrode and provide direct contact with the active sites of laccase. Biobattery characteristics under externally applied resistance, and power-time dependencies under flow cell conditions were evaluated. The system including the sandwich biobattery powering a dedicated two-electrode minipotentiostat with a simple sensor electrode was employed for monitoring a model neurotransmitter-catechol. The biobattery-powered sensor yielded the oxidation currents linearly dependent on catechol concentration in the range 0-2 mM and with a correlation coefficient of 0.998. This type of biobattery with laccase as the cathode catalyst can be integrated with analytical devices and power them even in long-time monitoring experiments. The Author(s) 2015.

Hydrodeoxygenation of lignin-derived phenols into alkanes over carbon nanotube supported Ru catalysts in biphasic systems
Phenolic compounds derived from lignin are important feedstocks for the sustainable production of alkane fuels with C6-C9 carbons. Hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) is the main chemical process to remove oxygen-containing functionalities. Here, we have reported the HDO of phenols in a biphasic H2O/n-dodecane system. A series of supported Ru catalysts were prepared, characterized and explored for the reaction among which Ru/CNT showed the highest catalytic activity towards the production of alkanes. The model reaction with eugenol achieved a high conversion (&gt;99%) and a high alkane selectivity (98%), which was much higher than the results from the monophasic system (56.5% yield of alkanes in H2O). The reaction conditions including reaction temperature, hydrogen pressure and the ratio of H2O/n-C12H26 were optimized. The kinetic experiments revealed that eugenol was first hydrogenated to 4-propyl-guaiacol, and then deoxygenated into 4-propyl-cyclohexanol which was the main detected intermediate of the reaction. After that, 4-propyl-cyclohexanol was dehydrated and hydrogenated into propylcyclohexane. Moreover, various phenols and dimeric lignin model compounds were also successfully converted into alkanes in the biphasic systems. The construction of the biphasic solvent-Ru/CNT catalyst system highlights an efficient route for the conversion of lignin-derived phenolic compounds to biofuels. The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015.

Nanobiocatalyst advancements and bioprocessing applications
The nanobiocatalyst (NBC) is an emerging innovation that synergistically integrates advanced nanotechnology with biotechnology and promises exciting advantages for improving enzyme activity, stability, capability and engineering performances in bioprocessing applications. NBCs are fabricated by immobilizing enzymes with functional nanomaterials as enzyme carriers or containers. In this paper, we review the recent developments of novel nanocarriers/nanocontainers with advanced hierarchical porous structures for retaining enzymes, such as nanofibres (NFs), mesoporous nanocarriers and nanocages. Strategies for immobilizing enzymes onto nanocarriers made from polymers, silicas, carbons and metals by physical adsorption, covalent binding, cross-linking or specific ligand spacers are discussed. The resulting NBCs are critically evaluated in terms of their bioprocessing performances. Excellent performances are demonstrated through enhanced NBC catalytic activity and stability due to conformational changes upon immobilization and localized nanoenvironments, and NBC reutilization by assembling magnetic nanoparticles into NBCs to defray the high operational costs associated with enzyme production and nanocarrier synthesis. We also highlight several challenges associated with the NBC-driven bioprocess applications, including the maturation of large-scale nanocarrier synthesis, design and development of bioreactors to accommodate NBCs, and long-term operations of NBCs. We suggest these challenges are to be addressed through joint collaboration of chemists, engineers and material scientists. Finally, we have demonstrated the great potential of NBCs in manufacturing bioprocesses in the near future through successful laboratory trials of NBCs in carbohydrate hydrolysis, biofuel production and biotransformation. The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

Catalytic valorization of cellulose and cellobiose with nanoparticles
Cellulose considered as one of the most abundant renewable resources have great potential for the production of bio-fuels and chemical building blocks bearing a diverse range of applications. Among various approaches for the efficient transformation of cellulose, nanoparticles on ordered porous materials with high surface area and unique particle morphology employed as heterogeneous catalysts exhibit dramatic improvement of catalytic activity and selectivity. In this review, selective conversion of cellulose as well as cellobiose through different types of reactions including hydrolysis, isomerization, dehydration, hydrogenation/hydrogenolysis, oxidation, hydrogenation-dehydration, and gasification/pyrolysis promoted by mono-or bi-functional nanocatalysts has been described. Emphasis is also paid to discuss plausible reaction pathways catalyzed by functionalized nanoparticles in these catalytic processes. Bentham Science Publishers.

Optimization of non transesterified cardanol as biofuel based on its physical and chemical properties
Present world emerges a need for an alternative source for conventional fossil fuel as it vanishes. Polluting emission from the fossil fuel also increases as the vehicle density and population rises. Vegetable oil promises better abilities to be an alternative for conventional fuel and polluting emission. Most of the vegetable oil is extracted from their seeds and are subjected to transesterification to be used in internal combustion engine as biofuel. In this article, cashew nut shell liquid (CNSL) extracted from cashew nut shell has been selected and tested for its physical and chemical properties. The major constituent of CNSL oil obtained by the pyrolysis process is cardanol. Physical properties of this oil are in the acceptable range for the selection of biomass as an alternative fuel and are very closer to the vegetable oil. Chemical structure of this oil shows that the absence of triglycerides and hence transesterification process is not required. Different blends can be prepared by simply mixing it in diesel and tested for its physical and chemical properties. Based on the test results, biodiesel blend is optimized for its suitability to be used in compression ignition engine as an alternative biofuel. Journal of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences.

Optimization of various parameters on botryococcus braunii for biodiesel production using nano CaO catalyst
The aim of the study was to obtain high quality biodiesel from microalgae Botryococcus braunii through transesterification process using nano CaO as catalyst. The yield of 81.31% ester was obtained at an optimum catalyst of 0.5 wt %. The reaction temperature was optimum at 55°C and yields 82.33% ester. At an optimum reaction time of 50 min a maximum yield of 84.11% ester was obtained. The stirring speed was varied from 150 to 400 rpm and was optimum at 300 rpm yields maximum of 84.67% ester. The fuel properties of B.Brunii Biodiesel was determined as per the ASTM D6571 standard are density 853 kg/m3, viscosity 5.34 mm2/sec, flash point 138°C, acid value 0.46mg/gm, calorific value 39.28 MJ/Kg and sulfur content 15 ppm. The method used in this study may well be novel approach and great potential in the industrial production of biodiesel from microalgae. Journal of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences.

High current density PQQ-dependent alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenase bioanodes
In this paper, we explore the bioelectrooxidation of ethanol using pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ)-dependent alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ADH and AldDH) enzymes for biofuel cell applications. The bioanode architectures were designed with both direct electron transfer (DET) and mediated electron transfer (MET) mechanisms employing high surface area materials such as multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) and MWCNT-decorated gold nanoparticles, along with different immobilization techniques. Three different polymeric matrices were tested (tetrabutyl ammonium bromide (TBAB)-modified Nafion; octyl-modified linear polyethyleneimine (C8-LPEI); and cellulose) in the DET studies. The modified Nafion membrane provided the best electrical communication between enzymes and the electrode surface, with catalytic currents as high as 16.8±2.1μAcm-2. Then, a series of ferrocene redox polymers were evaluated for MET. The redox polymer 1,1'-dimethylferrocene-modified linear polyethyleneimine (FcMe2-C3-LPEI) provided the best electrochemical response. Using this polymer, the electrochemical assays conducted in the presence of MWCNTs and MWCNTs-Au indicated a Jmax of 781±59μAcm-2 and 925±68μAcm-2, respectively. Overall, from the results obtained here, DET using the PQQ-dependent ADH and AldDH still lacks high current density, while the bioanodes that operate via MET employing ferrocene-modified LPEI redox polymers show efficient energy conversion capability in ethanol/air biofuel cells. Elsevier B.V.

Preparation of functionalized magnetic silica nanospheres for the cellulase immobilization
Cellulase was immobilized on functionalized magnetic silica nanospheres using glutaraldehyde as a cross-linking agent. The morphologies, structures and magnetic properties of this immobilized cellulase were characterized by transmission electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis, differential thermal analysis and vibrating sample magnetometry. The properties of immobilized cellulase were investigated, including the amount of immobilized cellulase and its relative activity, stability and reusability. The results indicated that immobilized cellulase exhibited better resistance to high temperature and pH inactivation in comparison to free cellulase. Moreover, immobilized cellulase with and without cross-linking agent were investigated and the former had greater amount of immobilized cellulase and better operational stability. The amount of immobilized cellulase with the cross-linking agent was 92 mg/g support. Furthermore, the activity of the immobilized cellulase was still 85.5% of the initial activity after 10 continuous uses, demonstrating the potential of this immobilized cellulase for large-scale biofuel production. World Scientific Publishing Company.

Sono-synthesis of biodiesel from soybean oil by KF/γ-Al2O3 as a nano-solid-base catalyst
In this work, biodiesel has successfully prepared via ultrasonic method in a short time and low temperature by nano-solid-base catalyst (KF/γ-Al2O3). The catalyst was obtained by calcination of a mixture of KF and γ-Al2O3 (mKF/mγ-Al2O3 = 70%) at 500°C for 3 h. Nano-solid-base catalyst was characterized with scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), thermal gravimetry (TG) and the Hammett indicator methods. The TEM image depicted nanoparticles and uniform dispersion of active phase over alumina. The XRD analysis confirmed the formation of potassium aluminum fluoride (K3AlF6) and potassium oxide, active catalyst for transesterification. The transesterification of soybean oil with methanol was performed by using both low frequency ultrasonic reactor (20 kHz) and mechanical stirring in the presence of KF/γ-Al2O3. The influence of various parameters such as ultrasonic power, oil/methanol molar ratio, catalyst concentration, time, and temperature were studied on the biodiesel formation. The maximum yield (95%) was achieved by applying 45W acoustic power, molar ratio of alcohol to oil at 12:1, catalyst concentration of 2.0 wt%, 40 min sonication, and temperature of 50°C. The transesterification was performed in 360 min using mechanical stirring with 76% yield. The results confirm that ultrasound significantly accelerates the transesterification reaction in comparison with the mechanical stirring. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Enhanced reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide electrocatalysis onto multi-walled carbon nanotubes-decorated gold nanoparticles and their use in hybrid biofuel cell
We report the preparation of Au nanoparticles synthetized by different protocols and supported on the surface of multi-walled carbon nanotubes containing different functional groups, focusing on their electrochemical performance towards NADH oxidation, ethanol bioelectrocatalysis, and ethanol/O2 biofuel cell. We describe four different synthesis protocols: microwave-assisted heating, water-in-oil, and dendrimer-encapsulated nanoparticles using acid or thiol species in the extraction step. The physical characterization of the metallic nanoparticles indicated that both the synthetic protocol as well as the type of functional groups on the carbon nanotubes affect the final particle size (varying from 13.4 to 2.4 nm) and their distribution onto the carbon surface. Moreover, the electrochemical data indicated that these two factors also influence their performance toward the electrooxidation of NADH. We observed that the samples containing Au nanoparticles with smaller size leads to higher catalytic currents and also shifts the oxidation potential of the targeted reaction, which varied from 0.13 to -0.06 V vs Ag/AgCl. Ethanol/O2 biofuel cell tests indicated that the hybrid bioelectrodes containing smaller and better distributed Au nanoparticles on the surface of carbon nanotubes generates higher power output, confirming that the electrochemical regeneration of NAD+ plays an important role in the overall biofuel cell performance. . All rights reserved.

Preparation and application of binary acid-base CaO-La2O3 catalyst for biodiesel production
A simple method was developed for biodiesel production from non-edible Jatropha oil which contains high free fatty acid using a bifunctional acid-base catalyst. The acid-base catalyst comprising CaO and La2O3 mixed metal oxides with various Ca/La atomic ratios were synthesized via co-precipitation method. The effects of Ca/La compositions on the surface area, acidity-basicity and transesterification activity were investigated. Integrated metal-metal oxide between Ca and La enhanced the catalytic activity due to well dispersion of CaO on composite surface and thus, increased the surface acidic and basic sites as compared to that of bulk CaO and La2O3 metal oxide. Furthermore, the transesterification reactions resulted that the catalytic activity of CaO-La2O3 series were increased with Ca/La atomic ratio to 8.0, but the stability of binary system decreased by highly saturated of CaO on the catalyst surface at Ca/La atomic ratio of 10.0. The highest biodiesel yield (98.76%) was achieved under transesterification condition of 160°C, 3h, 25 methanol/oil molar ratio and 3wt.%. In addition, the stability of CaO-La2O3 binary system was studied. In this study, Ca-La binary system is stable even after four cycles with negligible leaching of Ca2+ ion in the reaction medium. .

Optimized electrode arrangement and activation of bioelectrodes activity by carbon nanoparticles for efficient ethanol microfluidic biofuel cells
This work presents the construction of an ethanol microfluidic biofuel cell based on a biocathode and a bioanode, and operating in a Y-shaped microfluidic channel. At the anode, ethanol was oxidized by alcohol dehydrogenase, whereas at the cathode, the oxygen was reduced by laccase. Fuel and oxidant streams moved in parallel laminar flow without turbulent mixing into a microchannel fabricated using soft lithography methods. The enzymes were immobilized in the presence of reactive species at gold electrode surfaces. Bioelectrocatalytic processes were enhanced by combination of enzymes and carbon nanoparticles, attributed to appropriate electron transport and high amount enzyme loading. The benefit of the nanoparticles with higher surface porosity was explained by the high porous structure that offered a closer proximity to the reactive species and improved diffusion of the substrates within the enzyme films. The microfluidic BFC was optimized as function of electrode patterns, showing that higher current and power densities were achieved for shorter and wider electrodes that allow for thinner boundary layer depletion at the electrodes surface resulting in efficient catalytic consumption of fuel and oxidant. This miniaturized device generated maximum power density of 90 μW cm-2 at 0.6 V for a flow rate 16 μL min-1. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Catalytic pyrolysis of alga Saccharina japonica using Co/γ-Al 2O 3 and Ni/γ-Al 2O 3 catalyst
The catalytic pyrolysis of Saccharina japonica was investigated over Co and Ni catalyst supported on porous γ-Al2O3 in a tubing reactor. Both catalysts were found to exhibit a significant effect on the yield of bio-oil. The bio-oil derived from the pyrolysis consists primarily of dianhydromannitol and other compounds that can be an important source of liquid fuel. In the presence of 5 wt% Co/γ-Al2O3 catalyst with 2 wt% catalyst loading, the yield of the bio-oil from pyrolysis of S. japonica was enhanced remarkably to 40.7 wt% at a relatively low reaction temperature of 380°C within a short period of time (5 min). Taylor & Francis.

Solid Mixed-Metal-Oxide Catalysts for Biodiesel Production: A Review
With the rapid economic development and increasing depletion of petroleum-derived diesel, survival environment of the human has been a serious threat. Therefore, it is necessary to seek green, environmentally friendly, and renewable energy candidates, for which biodiesel fuel has been developed as a promising candidate for energy accommodation. Currently, the most applied approach for the production of biodiesel involves the esterification and/or transesterification reaction. Among various catalytic processes, heterogeneous catalysts are promising and receiving increasing attention due to the easy separation of products and catalysts as well as the high-purity glycerine (glycerol) byproduct that avoids significant waste emissions and effectively reduces the environmental pollution. In this Review, an attempt is being made to review different types of catalytic systems mediated by solid mixed metal oxides for biodiesel production. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Insights on Hybrid Glucose Biofuel Cells Based on Bilirubin Oxidase Cathode and Gold-Based Anode Nanomaterials
We report a straightforward design for a hybrid glucose biofuel cell (h-GBFC) operating at pH7.4 with 10mM glucose at 37°C. Homemade electrospun carbon nanofibers were used as electrode support. Clean and highly active gold-based nanomaterials (3-6nm) were synthesized for glucose electrooxidation. Enhanced catalytic activity toward glucose oxidation has been highlighted. Bilirubin oxidase enzyme was used to catalyze the oxygen reduction reaction. The constructed h-GBFCs exhibit an unexpected and highly improved open circuit voltage of 0.92V, which is the best value so far reported for such cells. The abiotic Au60Pt20Pd20/C anode induces high electrical performance with a maximum power density of 91μWcm-2 at 0.365V. This improvement over monometallic anode catalysts has been assigned to synergistic effects between gold, platinum, and palladium. Strategies developed herein will serve as guidelines for the development of new rational pathways to more powerful, stable, and promising GBFC designs. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Pacemaker Activated by an Abiotic Biofuel Cell Operated in Human Serum Solution
An "abiotic" biofuel cell composed of catalytic electrodes modified with inorganic nanostructured species was used to activate a pacemaker. The catalytic nanoparticles of various compositions, AuxPty, deposited on carbon black (CB) were prepared and extensively characterized to select the species with selectivity for glucose oxidation and oxygen reduction. Then two kinds of 3D-electrode materials with different morphology, buckypaper composed of carbon nanotubes (ca. 50nm diameter) and carbon paper made of carbon fibers (ca. 7μm diameter), were used in a combination with different catalytic species. Finally, Au/CB nanospecies deposited on buckypaper were selected for catalyzing glucose oxidation (composing the biofuel cell anode) and Au60Pt40/CB species deposited on carbon paper were selected for catalyzing oxygen reduction (composing the biofuel cell cathode). The catalytic electrodes were characterized by cyclic voltammetry in an aqueous buffer solution and the polarization function for the biofuel cell was studied in a human serum solution. The open circuit voltage, Voc, short circuit current density, jsc, and maximum power produced by the biofuel cell, Pmax, were found as 0.35V, 0.65mAcm-2 and 104μW, respectively (in human serum at 5.4mM glucose). The biofuel cell produced the steady state open circuit voltage over 10hours with its slow decrease over 50hours originating from the glucose depletion and slow mass-transport within the 3D-electrode. The voltage produced by the biofuel cell was amplified with an energy harvesting circuit and applied to a pacemaker resulting in its proper operation. The present study continues the research line where different implantable (enzyme-based or abiotic) biofuel cells are used for the activation of biomedical electronic devices, e.g., pacemakers. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

The transesterification of palm oil using KOH supported on bentonite in a continuous reactor
In this study, KOH/bentonite catalysts, prepared by the impregnation method, were studied for transesterification in a continuous reactor. The catalysts were characterized using X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectrophotometry, scanning electron microscopy, nitrogen adsorption/ desorption, CO2 temperature programmed desorption, and X-ray fluorescence. The results showed that the addition of 20 wt% K on the bentonite catalyst at 60°C reaction temperature, methanol/oil molar ratio of 15:1, and flow rate of 0.3 ml/min gave a biodiesel content exceeding 75%. With increasing basicity, the presence of K2O was observed, and the biodiesel content was improved. In addition, there was negligible loss in activity when the catalyst was operated at 60°C for 7 days. A minimum level of potassium leaching on the 20 wt% K/bentonite was observed during the run. Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

Stabilization of cobalt catalysts by embedment for efficient production of valeric biofuel
We herein report, for the first time, a bifunctional base-metal catalyst (Co@HZSM-5) that acts as an efficient alternative to noble-metal catalysts (e.g., Pt, Ru) for the conversion of levulinic acid into valeric biofuel under batch and fixed-bed reactor conditions. The cobalt nanoparticles were embedded in HZSM-5 crystals and catalyzed the sequential hydrogenations of the ketone and alkene functional groups; meanwhile, the acidic zeolite catalyzed the ring opening of the γ-valerolactone intermediate. Although base metals (e.g., Co) are abundant and inexpensive, their sintering and/or leaching under liquid-phase conditions always lead to the irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. In this system, the embedment structure stabilizes the nanoparticles, and Co@HZSM-5 could be used up to eight times. This work provides a practical clue toward the stabilization of base-metal catalysts and will inspire the development of large-scale biorefinery. American Chemical Society.

Momordica Charantia seed oil methyl esters: A kinetic study and fuel properties
Due to growing concerns such as increasing energy demand and the environmental issues-related fossil energy problems caused by consumption of fossil energy, it is needed to focus on nonedible oils for biodiesel production. In the present research work, the seed oil of Momordica charantia (M. charantia) was for the first time appraised as possible nonedible oil for synthesis of biodiesel. M. charantia has oil content (36.10 ± 4.20%), high acid value (1.82 mg KOH g-1), and its oil enable base-catalyzed transesterified for biodiesel production after acid pretreatment. It was transesterified under standard conditions at 6:1 molar ratio of methanol to oil; sodium methoxide (1.00 wt.% in relation to oil mass) as a catalyst; 60°C reaction temperature and 90 min of reaction time. At optimum conditions biodiesel yield of 93.2% was acquired. The reaction followed first order kinetics. The activation energy (E A) was 254.5 kcal mol-1 and the rate constant value was 1.30 × 10-4 min-1 at 60°C. Gas chromatography investigation of M. charantia seed oil methyl esters (MSOMEs) depicted that the fatty acid composition comprises a high proportion of mono-unsaturated fatty acids (64.11 ± 5.02%). MSOMEs were also characterized using Fourier Transform Infrared and 1H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy. The tested fuel properties of the MSOMEs, except oxidative stability, were conformed to EN 14214 and ASTM D6751 standards. The low-value oxidative stability of MSOMEs can be solved by adding antioxidants additives. In summary, M. charantia oil has potential as nonedible raw material for biodiesel production. Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.

Unraveling the role of low coordination sites in a cu metal nanoparticle: A step toward the selective synthesis of second generation biofuels
The acidity of a prereduced Cu/SiO2 catalyst was extensively investigated by means of FT-IR of adsorbed pyridine and by titration with 2-phenylethylamine in cyclohexane. Comparison with the parent CuO/SiO 2 material, which was already shown to exhibit Lewis acid sites due to the high dispersion of the CuO phase, provided evidence that reduction of this phase to the metallic state increases the acidity of the material. This allowed us to set up a bifunctional catalyst showing acidic and hydrogenation activity, both ascribable to the presence of the metal particle, without the need of an acidic support. This catalyst was tested in the one-pot transformation of γ-valerolactone into pentyl valerate and showed comparable activity (91% vs 92% conversion) and improved selectivity (92% vs 72%) with respect to the previously reported copper catalyst supported on acidic material. The role of Cu in activating the substrate was also evidenced through FTIR of adsorbed γ-valerolactone. American Chemical Society.

Hybrid nanocatalysts containing enzymes and metallic nanoparticles for ethanol/O2 biofuel cell
We report the preparation of hybrid nanostructured bioanodes containing the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) with either Au, Pt, or Pt 0.75Sn0.25 nanoparticles for use in ethanol/O2 hybrid biofuel cells. We describe two different methodologies for the preparation of the bioanodes: in a first case, multi walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) were employed as a support for the metallic nanoparticles and TBAB-modified Nafion® aided enzyme immobilization. In the second case, we immobilized the enzymes using dendrimers-encapsulated nanoparticles as the agent for enzyme anchoring. The biofuel cell tests showed that the addition of metallic nanoparticles to the bioanode structure enhanced the overall biofuel cell performance. The bioelectrode containing Au nanoparticles displaying the best performance, with an open circuit potential of 0.61 ± 0.05 V and a maximum power density of 155 ± 11 μW cm-2. NADH cyclic voltammetric experiments indicated that Au nanoparticles behaved as a catalyst toward NADH oxidation. Comparing the two protocols we used to synthetized nanoparticles, the sample containing the Au nanoparticles supported on MWCNTs furnished fourfold higher values. Therefore, from the satisfactory results obtained, it can be inferred that the combination of small amounts of metallic nanoparticles with enzymes improve bioanode performance. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Production of biodiesel from sunflower oil using highly catalytic bimetallic gold-silver core-shell nanoparticle
Bimetallic Gold-silver core-shell nanoparticles (Au@Ag NPs) were synthesized at room temperature, where gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) served as seeds for continuous deposition of silver atoms on its surface. The core-shell structure was examined by UV-vis spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis. The catalytic activity of these nanoparticles towardbiodiesel production from Sunflower oil through transesterification was studied. The confirmation for biofuel synthesis was performed using Fourier Transform Infra-Red(FTIR) spectroscopy. Fuel properties are determined by standard ASTM (American society for Testing and Materials) protocols. Our observations show that at certain catalyst concentration, temperature and reaction time, highest yield of biodiesel (86.9%) is attained. The fuel properties of the synthesized biofuel are at par with standard biofuel. Further, the catalyst showed sustained activity for 3 cycles of transesterification. .

Hydrodeoxygenation of lignin-derived phenolic monomers and dimers to alkane fuels over bifunctional zeolite-supported metal catalysts
A bifunctional catalyst of Ru supported in zeolite HZSM-5, Ru/HZSM-5 (Si/Al = 25), exhibited excellent hydrodeoxygenation activity toward the conversion of lignin-derived phenolic monomers and dimers to cycloalkanes in aqueous solution. The oxygen-containing groups in mono- and binuclear phenols were removed through a cleavage of C-O bonds in phenolics followed by an integrated metal- and acid-catalyzed hydrogenation and dehydration. As a bifunctional catalyst Ru/HZSM-5, the presence of both the Brønsted acid site in the pores of HZSM-5 for dehydration and a metallic function of Ru for hydrogenation was indispensible for the formation of alkanes from lignin-derived phenolics. Our findings also reveal that the Ru/HZSM-5 with the lowest Si/Al ratio of HZSM-5 proved to be most selective to cycloalkanes, indicating that more acid sites over zeolite are favorable for the dehydration of cyclohexanol during hydrodeoxygenation process, which leads higher selectivity to hydrocarbons. This approach for the construction of bifunctional catalyst highlights an efficient route for hydrodeoxygenation of lignin-derived phenolic oil to transportation biofuels. American Chemical Society.

Ionic liquid with metal complexes: An efficient catalyst for selective dehydration of fructose to 5-hydroxymethylfurfural
The dehydration of D-fructose has been studied with different kinds of pyridinium based dicationic ionic liquids as catalyst. The results showed that 1,1'-hexane-1,6-diylbis (3-methylpyridinium) tetrachloronickelate (II) [C6(Mpy)2][NiCl4]2- in DMSO and 1,1'-decane-1,10-diylbis (3-ethylpyridinium) dibromide [C10(Epy)2]2Br- without DMSO have high catalytic activity. Highly efficient and selective dehydration of D-fructose to 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) was achieved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) under mild conditions with a fructose conversion of 95.6% and 95.5% HMF yield was achieved in 60min reaction time at 110°C and 87.1% yield obtained from [C10(Epy)2]2Br- without DMSO at 100°C in 90min reaction time. The ionic liquids used in this study will benefit many biofuel-related applications. Elsevier B.V.

Pyrolysis of Parinari polyandra Benth fruit shell for bio-oil production
Non-conventional agricultural residues such as Parinari polyandra Benth fruit shell (PPBFS) are potential sources of biomass feedstock that have not been investigated for bio oil production. In this study, PPBFS was pyrolyzed via an intermediate pyrolysis process for the production of bio oil. The bio oils were obtained using a fixed bed reactor within a temperature range of 375-550°C and were characterized to determine their physicochemical properties. The most abundant organic compounds present were acetic acid, toluene, 2-cyclopenten-1-one, 2-furanmethanol, phenol, guaiacol and 2,6-dimethoxyphenol. The bio-oil produced at 550°C possessed a higher quantity of desirable compounds than those produced at lower temperatures. The presence of acetic acids in the bio-oil suggested the need to upgrade the bio-oil before utilization as a fuel source. BRTeam.

Methanol artificial photosynthesis using iron doped TiO2
Green/biobased biofuels derived from renewable resources are in the area special interest recently. In this paper methanol artificial photosynthesis using Iron doped TiO2 powder is reported. Methanol was fabricated in simple photocatalytic reactor under 300W tungsten halogen lamp irradiation. Photocatalyst was dispersed in water, CO2 gas was applied under different flow rate at continuous mechanical stirring. The optimum methanol yield condition (amount of catalyst, pH, TiO2 particle size, stirring speed) was found. Iron doped TiO2 performed good selectivity for methanol photosynthesis. Experimental results showed that, Iron doped TiO2 is much more effective for methanol photosynthesis than bare TiO2. Copyright American Scientific Publishers

Advances in solid-catalytic and non-catalytic technologies for biodiesel production
The insecure supply of fossil fuel coerces the scientific society to keep a vision to boost investments in the renewable energy sector. Among the many renewable fuels currently available around the world, biodiesel offers an immediate impact in our energy. In fact, a huge interest in related research indicates a promising future for the biodiesel technology. Heterogeneous catalyzed production of biodiesel has emerged as a preferred route as it is environmentally benign needs no water washing and product separation is much easier. The number of well-defined catalyst complexes that are able to catalyze transesterification reactions efficiently has been significantly expanded in recent years. The activity of catalysts, specifically in application to solid acid/base catalyst in transesterification reaction depends on their structure, strength of basicity/acidity, surface area as well as the stability of catalyst. There are various process intensification technologies based on the use of alternate energy sources such as ultrasound and microwave. The latest advances in research and development related to biodiesel production is represented by non-catalytic supercritical method and focussed exclusively on these processes as forthcoming transesterification processes. The latest developments in this field featuring highly active catalyst complexes are outlined in this review. The knowledge of more extensive research on advances in biofuels will allow a deeper insight into the mechanism of these technologies toward meeting the critical energy challenges in future. . All rights reserved.

Direct catalytic transformation of carbohydrates into 5-ethoxymethylfurfural with acid-base bifunctional hybrid nanospheres
A series of acid-base bifunctional hybrid nanospheres prepared from the self-assembly of basic amino acids and phosphotungstic acid (HPA) with different molar ratios were employed as efficient and recyclable catalysts for synthesis of liquid biofuel 5-ethoxymethylfurfural (EMF) from various carbohydrates. A high EMF yield of 76.6%, 58.5%, 42.4%, and 36.5% could be achieved, when fructose, inulin, sorbose, and sucrose were used as starting materials, respectively. Although, the acid-base bifunctional nanocatalysts were inert for synthesis of EMF from glucose based carbohydrates, ethyl glucopyranoside in good yields could be obtained from glucose in ethanol. Moreover, the nanocatalyst functionalized with acid and basic sites was able to be reused several times with no significant loss in catalytic activity. . All rights reserved.

Biodiesel production from Pongamia pinnata oil using synthesized iron nanocatalyst
Biodiesel is a clean-burning renewable substitute fuel for conventional petroleum diesel, which is made from vegetable oils or animal fats by a monoalcoholic transesterification process. Biodiesel production using nanocatalyst is one of the approaches in the search of alternative fuel. In this present investigation, the synthesized iron nanoparticles were used as a nanocatalyst for the production of biodiesel using Pongamia pinnata oil with methanol. The transesterification reaction for the conversion of triglycerides into fatty acid methyl esters was carried out at a molar ratio of 3:1 methanol to oil, reaction time of 2 h, stirring speed of 400 rpm at 65°C. The amount of iron nanoparticles used for this study was 1% (wt/wt). The physico-chemical properties of the Pongamia pinnata fatty acid methyl esters including specific gravity, kinematic viscosity, flash point, cloud point, water content, carbon residue, refractive index, copper corrosion and calorific value were 0.873, 4.6 mm2/s at 40°C, 178 °C, 5°C, 0.012 vol. %, 0.033 mass %, 1.445, 1b and 3788 cal/gm respectively. The obtained values of physico-chemical properties are in accordance with the specifications of biodiesel as per ASTM D6751 standard. These findings conclude that the synthesized iron nanoparticles acted as a catalyst to produce biodiesel and the obtained biodiesel was considered as suitable alternatives to the conventional diesel., Sphinx Knowledge House. All rights reserved.

Room-temperature transfer hydrogenation and fast separation of unsaturated compounds over heterogeneous catalysts in an aqueous solution of formic acid
The facile conversion of olefins and unsaturated biomass to saturated compounds is achieved over heterogeneous catalysts composed of noble metal nanoparticles and carbon nitride. Reactions could proceed smoothly at room temperature in water using formic acid as the hydrogen source. The reusability of such a hybrid catalyst is high due to the strong Mott-Schottky effect between the metal nanoparticles and the carbon nitride support. The fast and automatic separation of the as-formed saturated hydrocarbons from water combined with the mild reaction conditions and the excellent reusability of catalysts make the catalytic process a highly "green" path for hydrogenation of unsaturated compounds and biofuel upgrading. This journal is the Partner Organisations 2014.

Production characterization and efficiency of biodiesel: A review
Vegetable oil is one of the main first generation liquid biofuels. The fuel characteristics of vegetable oil such as viscosity and atomization cannot be accommodated by existing diesel engines. An alternate process has been developed to improve the fuel characteristics of vegetable oils through the process of alcoholysis to produce a fuel called biodiesel. It can be used in engines as substitute for fossil fuel. This paper reviews the characteristics of different oils available for biodiesel production and the production technologies, engine performance using vegetable oil and biodiesel, and emission studies. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Biodiesel production from non-edible Silybum marianum oil using heterogeneous solid base catalyst under ultrasonication
The aim of this study is to investigate modified TiO2 doped with C4H4O6HK as heterogeneous solid base catalyst for transesterification of non-edible, Silybum marianum oil to biodiesel using methanol under ultrasonication. Upon screening the catalytic performance of modified TiO2 doped with different K-compounds, 0.7 C 4H4O6HK doped on TiO2 was selected. The preparation of the catalyst was done using incipient wetness impregnation method. Having doped modified TiO2 with C4H 4O6HK, followed by impregnation, drying and calcination at 600 °C for 6 h, the catalyst was characterized by XRD, FTIR, SEM, BET, TGA, UV and the Hammett indicators. The yield of the biodiesel was proportional to the catalyst basicity. The catalyst had granular and porous structures with high basicity and superior performance. Combined conditions of 16:1 molar ratio of methanol to oil, 5 wt.% catalyst amount, 60 °C reaction temperature and 30 min reaction time was enough for maximum yield of 90.1%. The catalyst maintained sustained activity after five cycles of use. The oxidative stability which was the main problem of the biodiesel was improved from 2.0 h to 3.2 h after 30 days using ascorbic acid as antioxidant. The other properties including the flash point, cetane number and the cold flow ones were however, comparable to international standards. The study indicated that Ti-0.7-600-6 is an efficient, economical and environmentally, friendly catalyst under ultrasonication for producing biodiesel from S. marianum oil with a substantial yield. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Pt nanocatalysts supported on reduced graphene oxide for selective conversion of cellulose or cellobiose to sorbitol
Pt nanocatalysts loaded on reduced graphene oxide (Pt/RGO) were prepared by means of a convenient microwave-assisted reduction approach with ethylene glycol as reductant. The conversion of cellulose or cellobiose into sorbitol was used as an application reaction to investigate their catalytic performance. Various metal nanocatalysts loaded on RGO were compared and RGO-supported Pt exhibited the highest catalytic activity with 91.5 % of sorbitol yield from cellobiose. The catalytic performances of Pt nanocatalysts supported on different carbon materials or on silica support were also compared. The results showed that RGO was the best catalyst support, and the yield of sorbitol was as high as 91.5 % from cellobiose and 58.9 % from cellulose, respectively. The improvement of catalytic activity was attributed to the appropriate Pt particle size and hydrogen spillover effect of Pt/RGO catalyst. Interestingly, the size and dispersion of supported Pt particles could be easily regulated by convenient adjustment of the microwave heating temperature. The catalytic performance was found to initially increase and then decrease with increasing particle size. The optimum Pt particle size was 3.6 nm. These findings may offer useful guidelines for designing novel catalysts with beneficial catalytic performance for biomass conversion. Support group: Pt nanocatalysts loaded on reduced graphene oxide are prepared by a microwave-assisted ethylene glycol reduction method, and present high activity and selectivity for the conversion of cellobiose or cellulose to sorbitol. The high catalytic activity is attributed to the synergistic effects of reduced graphene oxide and the supported Pt nanoparticles. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Preparation and characterization of amine grafted SBA-15 catalysts and their application in aldol condensation reaction
Solid basic catalysts were synthesized by post-grafting four different organic amines, i.e. primary amine(PA), secondary amine(SA), tertiary amine(TA) and piperazidine(PP) to mesoporous SBA-15. The samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction, nitrogen adsorption, thermogravimetric analysis, scanning electron microscopy and elemental analysis. The activity of prepared catalysts was tested in aldol condensation reaction of bio-oil model compounds (furfural and acetone). The influence of graft reaction conditions, different functional groups of amine, solvents and temperature on conversion of furfural and selectivity of FA and F2A were investigated. The results indicated that the prepared samples retain excellent ordered mesoporous structure with the amino loading at 0.6-1.0 mmol/g. The catalytic activity increased when strict N2-pretected grafting condition, protic solvent and higher temperature were used. The catalyst containing primary amine (N2-pretected grafting condition) shows the best catalytic activity. The highest conversion of furfural (82.6%) and product selectivity of FA (41.4%) and F2A(8.7%) can be achieved after reaction at 80°C for 8 h in H2O solvent.

Investigation of biodiesel production using modified strontium nanocatalysts supported on the ZSM-5 zeolite
This paper investigates the activities of strontium nanocatalysts supported on the ZSM-5 zeolite in transesterification of sunflower oil for production of biodiesel FAME (fatty acids methyl ester). The catalysts were prepared via incipient wetness impregnation method. The effects of different Sr/ZSM-5, Ba-Sr/ZSM-5 mass ratios and calcination conditions on the catalytic activity were investigated. The activity of yBa-xSr/ZSM-5 (where x=6wt.% strontium based on ZSM-5 weight and y=4wt.% Ba based on the Sr weight) was studied in different operational conditions such as methanol/oil molar ratio, mass ratio of catalyst to oil, reaction time and reaction temperature. It was found that the catalyst containing yBa-xSr/ZSM-5 (where x=6wt.% strontium based on ZSM-5 weight and y=4wt.% barium based on the strontium weight) is an optimal catalyst for biodiesel production. The results showed that the best operational conditions are the methanol/oil=9/1 at 60°C with mechanical stirring of 500rpm for 180min. The maximum biodiesel FAME yield of 87.7% was achieved by using the optimal catalyst. Characterization of the catalyst sample was performed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and N2 adsorption-desorption measurement methods. Elsevier B.V.

Research progress and application prospect of enzyme immobilization on mesoporous silica-based materials
This paper reviewed the current status of the development of enzyme immobilization on mesoporous silica-based materials, in particular with focus on the main factors (pore diameter and nanopore microenvironment) influencing the catalytic properties of enzymes immobilized in nanopores of mesoporous supports. The application prospect of the immobilized enzymes in biodiesel production, biomass conversion, synthesis of fine chemicals and chiral pharmaceuticals, fabrication of biofuel cells and biosensors was also discussed using hydrolase and oxidoreductase as model enzymes.

Treatment of clay with KF: New solid catalyst for biodiesel production
A novel solid catalyst with basic properties was developed from untreated smectite chemically modified by treatment with potassium fluoride, resulting in a material with excellent stability and high catalytic activity in the conversion of soybean oil into biodiesel in the presence of methyl alcohol. The percentage of conversion into methyl esters of 99.7% was obtained under conditions of 1. h of reaction time at 338. K, 15. wt.% catalyst and molar ratio of methanol/oil of 6:1. A concomitant study was made to evaluate the effect of the mineralogical composition of the untreated clay on the properties of the catalysts and their performance in the transesterification reaction. Elsevier B.V.

Ultrasonic biodiesel synthesis from crude Jatropha curcas oil with heterogeneous base catalyst: Mechanistic insight and statistical optimization
This paper reports studies in ultrasound-assisted heterogeneous solid catalyzed (CaO) synthesis of biodiesel from crude Jatropha curcas oil. The synthesis has been carried out in two stages, viz. esterification and trans-esterification. The esterification process is not influenced by ultrasound. The transesterification process, however, shows marked enhancement with ultrasound. A statistical experimental design has been used to optimize the process conditions for the synthesis. XRD analysis confirms formation of Ca(OMe)2, which is the active catalyst for transesterification reaction. The optimum values of parameters for the highest yield of transesterification have been determined as follows: alcohol to oil molar ratio ≈ 11, catalyst concentration ≈ 5.5 wt.%, and temperature ≈ 64 C. The activation energy of the reaction is calculated as 133.5 kJ/mol. The heterogeneity of the system increases mass transfer constraints resulting in approx. 4× increase in activation energy as compared to homogeneous alkali catalyzed system. It is also revealed that intense micro-convection induced by ultrasound enhances the mass transfer characteristics of the system with ∼20% reduction in activation energy, as compared to mechanically agitated systems. Influence of catalyst concentration and alcohol to oil molar ratio on the transesterification yield is inter-linked through formation of methoxy ions and their diffusion to the oil-alcohol interface, which in turn is determined by the volume fractions of the two phases in the reaction mixture. As a result, the highest transesterification yield is obtained at the moderate values of catalyst concentration and alcohol to oil molar ratio. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Integrated electrocatalytic processing of levulinic acid and formic acid to produce biofuel intermediate valeric acid
Herein, we report integrated electrocatalytic processing of simulated acid-catalyzed cellulose hydrolysis downstream (levulinic acid + formic acid) to the biofuel intermediate valeric acid (VA). This green electro-biorefining process does not require complex steps to separate levulinic acid and formic acid (FA) from H2SO4; instead it couples electrocatalytic hydrogenation (ECH) of levulinic acid (LA) in a single electrocatalytic flow cell reactor and electrocatalytic oxidation of formic acid in a proton exchange membrane-direct formic acid fuel cell (DFAFC). The presence of FA has shown no negative effect on the ECH of LA and a high VA selectivity of &gt;90% can be achieved on a non-precious Pb electrode while the Faradaic efficiency remains &gt;47% during 8 hours of reaction in the single electrocatalytic flow cell reactor. This stream is fed directly to the DFAFC with a Pd/C anode catalyst to self-sustainably remove FA where 47% conversion of FA can be reached in 6 hours. However, electro-oxidation of FA over Pd/C appears to be reversibly inhibited by the product VA produced during ECH of LA. The electro-oxidation of FA + C2-C5 alkyl carboxylic acid in the half cell study shows that such an inhibition effect could have originated from the -COOH adsorption on the Pd surface. Higher carboxylic acid concentration and longer carbon chain lead to more serious loss of the electrocatalytic surface area (ECSA) of Pd/C. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Solvent-free γ-valerolactone hydrogenation to 2-methyltetrahydrofuran catalysed by Ru/C: A reaction network analysis
2-Methyltetrahydrofuran (2-MTHF) is considered to be an attractive biomass based platform chemical with high potential as a biofuel compound and as a green solvent. 2-MTHF can be synthesised from bio-based levulinic acid (LA) and γ-valerolactone (GVL). Herein the optimum reaction conditions for the hydrogenation of GVL over Ru/C have been studied. A full conversion of GVL has been obtained under solvent free conditions with a maximum yield of 2-MTHF of 43%. The optimized conditions have been employed in a mechanistic study of the synthesis of 2-MTHF. Several side reactions have been investigated to explore the full reaction network of this heterogeneously catalysed system and to elucidate the factors influencing product selectivity. Additionally an efficient solvent-free hydrogenation reaction of LA into 2-MTHF could be achieved delivering 90% conversion of LA with a yield of 2-MTHF of 61% by removing water from the system in a two-step approach. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Biodiesel production from transesterification of palm oil with methanol over CaO supported on bimodal meso-macroporous silica catalyst
Calcium oxide-loaded porous materials have shown promise as catalysts in transesterification. However, the slow diffusion of bulky triglycerides through the pores limited the activity of calcium oxide (CaO). In this work, bimodal meso-macroporous silica was used as a support to enhance the accessibility of the CaO dispersed inside the pores. Unimodal porous silica having the identical mesopore diameter was employed for the purpose of comparison. Effects of CaO content and catalyst pellet size on the yield of fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) were investigated. The basic strength was found to increase with increasing the CaO content. The CaO-loaded bimodal porous silica catalyst with the pellet size of 325. μm achieved a high %FAME of 94.15 in the first cycle, and retained an excellent %FAME of 88.87 after five consecutive cycles. .

Mechanistic insight into sonochemical biodiesel synthesis using heterogeneous base catalyst
The beneficial effect of ultrasound on transesterification reaction is well known. Heterogeneous (or solid) catalysts for biodiesel synthesis have merit that they do not contaminate the byproduct of glycerol. In this paper, we have attempted to identify the mechanistic features of ultrasound-enhanced biodiesel synthesis with the base-catalyst of CaO. A statistical design of experiments (Box-Behnken) was used to identify the influence of temperature, alcohol to oil molar ratio and catalyst loading on transesterification yield. The optimum values of these parameters for the highest yield were identified through Response Surface Method (with a quadratic model) and ANOVA. These values are: temperature = 62 C, molar ratio = 10:1 and catalyst loading = 6 wt.%. The activation energy was determined as 82.3 kJ/mol, which is higher than that for homogeneous catalyzed system (for both acidic and basic catalyst). The experimental results have been analyzed vis-à-vis simulations of cavitation bubble dynamics. Due to 3-phase heterogeneity of the system, the yield was dominated by intrinsic kinetics, and the optimum temperature for the highest yield was close to boiling point of methanol. At this temperature, the influence of cavitation bubbles (in terms of both sonochemical and sonophysical effect) is negligible, and ultrasonic micro-streaming provided necessary convection in the system. The influence of all parameters on the reaction system was found to be strongly inter-dependent. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Experimental analysis of di-functional magnetic oxide catalyst and its performance in the hemp plant biodiesel production
This paper reports a study on the performance assessment of di-functional magnetic Fe-Ca oxide catalyst in biodiesel production using hemp oil. In situ co-precipitation procedure was used for synthesis of di-functional magnetic solid base catalyst. The resultant catalyst had good magnetic property with relatively high saturation magnetism (45.6. emu/g) and the reused catalyst status is quite functional. The catalyst was characterized using various techniques including XRD, TG-DTA, SEM and VSM. The produced biodiesel was characterized and conformed by GC/MS, NMR and FT/IR. The synthesis of biodiesel was carried out at constant temperature (60. °C), reaction time (2. h) oil alcohol molar ratio (1:6), agitation (600. rpm) and catalyst concentration (2.25%) w/w. The maximum biodiesel yield was achieved 92.16% using di-functional magnetic Fe-Ca oxide catalyst. .

Kinetic Study on the CsXH3-XPW12O 40Fe-SiO2 Nanocatalyst for Biodiesel Production
The kinetic of the transesterification reaction over the C s X H 3 -X PW12O40/Fe-SiO2 catalyst prepared using sol-gel and impregnation procedures was investigated in different operational conditions. Experimental conditions were varied as follows: reaction temperature 323-333 K, methanol/oil molar ratio = 12/1, and the reaction time 0-240 min. The H3PW12O40 heteropolyacid has recently attracted significant attention due to its potential for application in the production of biodiesel, in either homogeneous or heterogeneous catalytic conditions. Although fatty acids esterification reaction has been known for some time, data is still scarce regarding kinetic and thermodynamic parameters, especially when catalyzed by nonconventional compounds such as H 3PW12O40. Herein, a kinetic study utilizing Gc-Mas in situ allows for evaluating the effects of operation conditions on reaction rate and determining the activation energy along with thermodynamic constants including Δ G, Δ S, and Δ H. It indicated that the C s X H 3 -X PW12O40/Fe-SiO2 magnetic nanocatalyst can be easily recycled with a little loss by magnetic field and can maintain higher catalytic activity and higher recovery even after being used 5 times. Characterization of catalyst was carried out by using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform-infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), N2 adsorption-desorption measurements methods, thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). Mostafa Feyzi et al.

Advances on waste valorization: New horizons for a more sustainable society
Increasingly tighter regulations regarding organic waste, and the demand for renewable chemicals and fuels, are pushing the manufacturing industry toward higher sustainability to improve cost-effectiveness and meet customers’ demand. Food waste valorization is one of the current research areas that has attracted a great deal of attention over the past few years as a potential alternative to the disposal of a wide range of residues in landfill sites. In particular, the development of environmentally sound and innovative strategies to process such waste is an area of increasing importance in our current society. Landfill, incineration and composting are common, mature technologies for waste disposal. However, they are not satisfactory to treating organic waste due to the generation of toxic methane gas and bad odor, high energy consumption and slow reaction kinetics. In fact, research efforts have also been oriented on novel technologies to decompose organic waste. However, no valuable product is generated from the decomposition process. Instead of disposing and decomposing food waste, recent research has focused on its utilization as energy source (e.g., for bioethanol and biodiesel production). Organic waste is also useful to generate useful organic chemicals via biorefinery or white biotechnology (e.g., succinic acid and/or bio-plastics). This article is aimed to summarize recent development of waste valorization strategies for the sustainable production of chemicals, materials, and fuels through the development of green production strategies. It will also provide key insights into recent legislation on management of waste worldwide as well as two relevant case studies (the transformation of corncob residues into functionalized biomass-derived carbonaceous solid acids and their utilization in the production of biodiesel-like biofuels from waste oils in Philippines, as well as the development of a bakery waste based biorefinery for succinic acid and bioplastic production in Hong Kong) to illustrate the enormous potential of biowaste valorization for a more sustainable society. Future research directions and possible sustainable approaches will also be discussed with their respective proofs of concept. The Authors.

Facile synthesis of palladium nanoparticles supported on multi-walled carbon nanotube for efficient hydrogenation of biomass-derived levulinic acid
Different loading of palladium (Pd) nanoparticles were successfully fabricated on multi-walled carbon nanotubes using Pd acetylacetonate as the precursor via a simple liquid impregnation method. The crystal phase, morphology, textural structure and the chemical state of the resulting Pd nanoparticles (Pd/CNT) catalysts were studied and the characterization results indicated that the uniform dispersion of small Pd nanoparticles with the size range of 1.0-4.5 nm was achieved. The synthesized Pd/CNT catalysts exhibited efficient performance for the catalytic hydrogenation of biomass-derived levulinic acid into biofuel γ-valerolactone. In comparison with the commercial 5 wt% Pd/C and the 5 wt% Pd/CNT catalyst prepared by Pd nitrate precursor, much higher activities were achieved, whereas the biofuel γ-valerolactone was highly produced with 56.3 % yield at 57.6 % conversion of levulinic acid on the 5 wt% Pd/CNT catalyst under mild conditions. The catalyst developed in this work may be a good candidate for the wide applications in the hydrogenation. Springer Science+Business Media.

Catalysis with ceria nanocrystals: Bio-oil model compound ketonization
The problems associated with the high content of organic acids present in bio-oil can potentially be alleviated through the use of the ketonization reaction. While there have been previous reports that ketonization reactions are sensitive to the surface morphology of the respective catalyst, these studies have largely been performed in idealized conditions. Here, shape selective ceria nanocatalysts were synthesized and examined in both condensed and vapor phase ketonization reactions with the model bio-oil compound, acetic acid. It was found that in lower temperature (503 K) condensed-phase conditions the morphology of the catalyst was of less importance due to crystal disruption from metal carboxylate formation. However, the bulk structure was maintained to a greater extent in the higher temperature (623 K) vapor phase conditions. This work demonstrated that surface morphology of the ceria catalyst did not play a significant role in the ketonization reaction. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Nanotechnology in solar and biofuels
The daunting energy challenges in the 21st century are a result of over-reliance on limited fossil fuels coupled with ever-increasing energy demand. Among the solutions is the development of technologies and infrastructures to help in the smooth transition to alternative and renewable energy sources. Nanotechnology, a combination of chemistry and engineering, is viewed as the new candidate for clean energy applications. It involves the manipulation of nanoscale structures to integrate them into larger material components and systems. In comparison to bulk materials, nanomaterials have high surface areas and are expected to exhibit higher activities. They also demonstrate better stability and durability and are more cost-effective with high recycling potential. This paper reviews selected recent advances in the development of nanotechnology in the emerging solar energy and biofuel fields. Special emphases are given to studies on photovoltaics (including Schottky junction solar cells, organic solar cells, quantum dot-sensitized solar cells, and earth-abundant Cu2ZnSnS4 materials) and artificial photosynthesis. As for the biofuel section, a review on the use of nanotechnology in transesterification, gasification, pyrolysis, and hydrogenation, as well as in the reforming of biomass-derived compounds is given. As these technologies become more mature, efficient, and economical, they could eventually replace traditional fossil fuels. American Chemical Society.

Enzymeless multi-sugar fuel cells with high power output based on 3D graphene-Co3O4 hybrid electrodes
Biofuel cells (BFCs), which use enzymes as catalysts to harvest energy from green and sustainable fuels abundantly producible from biological systems, are promising next-generation energy devices. However, the poor stability and high specificity to only one fuel type of these bio-catalysts largely limits the practical use of current BFCs. In this contribution, we demonstrate a unique fuel cell which, equipped with two identical enzyme-free electrodes based on Co3O4 coated 3D graphene, is able to efficiently harvest electricity from various sweet biofuels (glucose, sucrose, or lactose). Taking advantage of the dual catalytic ability of nanostructured Co3O 4 for both glucose oxidation and oxygen reduction as well as the exceptional electrical and structural properties of 3D graphene, our glucose-powered fuel cell, with good long-term stability, offers high open circuit voltage (∼1.1 V) and power density output (2.38 ± 0.17 mW cm-2). the Owner Societies.

Novel nano-scale Au/α-Fe2O3 catalyst for the preferential oxidation of CO in biofuel reformate gas
Au/α-Fe2O3 catalyst was synthesized using a modified co-precipitation method to generate an inverse catalyst model. The effects of introducing CO2 and H2O during preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO were investigated. The goal of this work was ≥99.8% CO conversion at 80°C. There was an increase in the conversion at all temperatures with the introduction of CO2 and 100% of the CO was converted at the target temperature of 80°C for any amount of CO 2. Furthermore, there was an increase in conversion to 100% for water fractions ranging from 3% to 10%. Finally, for realistic conditions of (bio-)fuel reforming, 24% CO2 and 10% water, 99.85% conversion was achieved. A long-term test of 200 h showed no significant deactivation of the catalyst at a temperature of 80°C in presence of 24% CO2 and 3% water. The mechanism for PROX is not known definitively; however, current literature believes the gold particle size is the key. In contrast, we emphasize the tremendous role of the support particle size.

InCl3-ionic liquid catalytic system for efficient and selective conversion of cellulose into 5-hydroxymethylfurfural
In recent decades, 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) has been considered as a green platform molecule with a wide range of applications in manufacturing fine chemicals and biofuels. As the most abundant organic material on earth, cellulose has received increasing attention as a potential material for the production of biofuels and bio-based chemicals. Efficient methods for transforming cellulose into HMF need to be developed to achieve the successful commercialization of HMF in the near future. A new process for the efficient and selective conversion of microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) to HMF was developed by using an InCl3-ionic liquid catalytic system. The effect of reaction conditions, such as reaction time, temperature, catalyst dosage, and various acidic ionic liquids were investigated in detail. The results showed that 45.3% HMF yield and 84.6% MCC conversion were obtained with the presence of 1-methyl-3-(3-sulfopropyl)-imidazolium hydrogen sulfate ([C3SO 3Hmim][HSO4]) and dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) by adding a catalytic amount of InCl3 under atmospheric pressure within 5 h at 160 °C. Recycling of the [C3SO3Hmim][HSO4] and InCl3 catalyst exhibited an almost constant activity during five successive trials. A mechanism was proposed to explain the high activity of InCl3 in [C3SO3Hmim][HSO4]. The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Biodiesel synthesis by TiO2-ZnO mixed oxide nanocatalyst catalyzed palm oil transesterification process
Biodiesel is a promising alternating environmentally benign fuel to mineral diesel. For the development of easier transesterification process, stable and active heterogeneous mixed metal oxide of TiO2-ZnO and ZnO nanocatalysts were synthesized and exploited for the palm oil transesterification process. The synthesized catalysts were characterized by XRD, FT-IR, and FE-SEM studies for their structural and morphological characteristics. It was found that TiO2-ZnO nanocatalyst exhibits good catalytic activity and the catalytic performance was greatly depends on (i) catalyst concentration (ii) methanol to oil molar ratio (iii) reaction temperature and (iv) reaction time. A highest 98% of conversion was obtained at the optimum reaction parameters with 200mg of catalyst loading and the biodiesel was analyzed by TLC and 1H NMR techniques. The TiO2-ZnO nanocatalyst shows good catalytic performance over the ZnO catalyst, which could be a potential candidate for the large-scale biodiesel production from palm oil at the reduced temperature and time..

Solid- and Nano-Catalysts Pretreatment and Hydrolysis Techniques
Conversion methods for lignocellulosic materials are essential for the production of biofuels and bio-chemicals via sugar platform biorefineries. Sugars are commonly derived by a two-step process involving liquid acid pretreatment and subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis. Recent advances in biomass pretreatment and hydrolysis with solid acid catalysts have shown that catalytic method can be a promising replacement for liquid acid hydrolysis. This chapter covers works concerning the pretreatment and hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials using solid- and nano-catalysts. First, biomass pretreatment is introduced briefly. The properties and synthesis of solid acid catalysts, such as acid site density, acid strength, structure of supports, acid site distribution, and tolerance to water are introduced in detail. Influences of reaction conditions on hydrolysis efficiency are also summarized. Moreover, the chapter discusses obstacles in the applications of solid acid catalysts for biomass pretreatment and hydrolysis. Suggestions are given for promoting catalytic efficiency, recycling, and regeneration of solid acid catalysts. Finally, nanosized solid catalysts are introduced and discussed that can promote biomass pretreatment and hydrolysis. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013.

Optimization of biodiesel production process from soybean oil using the sodium potassium tartrate doped zirconia catalyst under Microwave Chemical Reactor
A solid base catalyst was prepared by the sodium potassium tartrate doped zirconia and microwave assisted transesterification of soybean oil was carried out for the production of biodiesel. It was found that the catalyst of 2.0(n(Na)/n(Zr)) and calcined at 600°C showed the optimum activity. The base strength of the catalysts was tested by the Hammett indicator method, and the results showed that the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield was related to their total basicity. The catalyst was also characterized by FTIR, TGA, XRD and TEM. The experimental results showed that a 2.0:1 volume ratio of methanol to oil, 65°C reaction temperature, 30min reaction time and 10wt.% catalyst amount gave the highest the yield of biodiesel. Compared to conventional method, the reaction time of the way of microwave assisted transesterification was shorter. The catalyst had longer lifetime and maintained sustained activity after being used for four cycles. .

Biodiesel production by transesterification catalyzed by an efficient choline ionic liquid catalyst
The catalytic synthesis of biodiesel from soybean oil by transesterification over basic ionic liquid catalysts had been studied at atmospheric pressure. Choline hydroxide (ChOH) catalyst exhibited better catalytic activity compared with other basic ionic liquid catalysts, and methanol is the best alcohol for biodiesel synthesis. The suitable molar ratio of methanol and soybean oil was 9:1, and the optimum catalyst dosage existed for catalytic activity, which was about 4. wt.% (without soap formation). The study also revealed that the appropriate reaction temperature was about 60°C, and the suitable reaction time was 2.5. h on the basis of biodiesel yield. The reusability test showed that ChOH catalyst had perfect utility for repeated use. By basicity test, it was found that the basic ionic liquid ChOH possessed better basicity in methanol solution. The catalytic reaction mechanism was illuminated by the interaction between the methoxyl group after activating and the carbonyl group of the triglyceride, which has been investigated using quasi in situ infrared spectroscopy. .

Long-term operation of biomass-to-liquid systems coupled to gasification and Fischer-Tropsch processes for biofuel production
Long-term operation of the biomass-to-liquid (BTL) process was conducted with a focus on the production of bio-syngas that satisfies the purity standards for the Fischer-Tropsch (FT) process. The integrated BTL system consisted of a bubbling fluidized bed (BFB) gasifier (20kWth), gas cleaning unit, syngas compression unit, acid gas removing unit, and an FT reactor. Since the raw syngas from the gasifier contains different types of contaminants, such as particulates, condensable tars, and acid gases, which can cause various mechanical problems or deactivate the FT catalyst, the syngas was purified by passing through cyclones, a gravitational dust collector, a two-stage wet scrubber (packing-type), and a methanol absorption tower. The integrated system was operated for 500h over several runs, and stable operating conditions for each component were achieved. The cleaned syngas contained no sulfur compounds (under 1ppmV) and satisfied the requirements for the FT process. 2012 .

Hydrogenation of quinolines, alkenes, and biodiesel by palladium nanoparticles supported on magnesium oxide
A new catalyst composed of Pd nanoparticles supported on MgO has been prepared by the room temperature NaBH4 reduction of Na 2PdCl4 in methanol in the presence of the support. TEM measurements reveal well-dispersed Pd particles of mean diameter 1.7 nm attached to the MgO surface. Further characterization was achieved by ICP-AES, XPS, XRD, H2 pulse chemisorption and H2-TPR. The new catalyst is efficient for the regioselective hydrogenation of the heterocyclic ring of quinolines, as well as for the mild reduction of a variety of alkenes representative of fuel components, and the partial saturation of biodiesel. The new material is considerably more reactive than commercial Pd/SiO2 and Pd/Al2O3 catalysts under analogous reaction conditions. 2012 The Royal Society of Chemistry.

Non-syngas direct steam reforming of methanol to hydrogen and carbon dioxide at low temperature
A non-syngas direct steam reforming route is investigated for the conversion of methanol to hydrogen and carbon dioxide over a CuZnGaOx catalyst at 150-200 °C. This route is in marked contrast with the conventional complex route involving steam reformation to syngas (CO/H 2) at high temperature, followed by water gas shift and CO cleanup stages for hydrogen production. Here we report that high quality hydrogen and carbon dioxide can be produced in a single-step reaction over the catalyst, with no detectable CO (below detection limit of 1 ppm). This can be used to supply proton exchange membrane fuel cells for mobile applications without invoking any CO shift and cleanup stages. The working catalyst contains, on average, 3-4 nm copper particles, alongside extremely small size of copper clusters stabilized on a defective ZnGa2O4 spinel oxide surface, providing hydrogen productivity of 393.6 ml g-1-cat h-1 at 150 °C. 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved.

Gas-liquid countercurrent integration process for continuous biodiesel production using a microporous solid base KF/CaO as catalyst
A continuous-flow integration process was developed for biodiesel production using rapeseed oil as feedstock, based on the countercurrent contact reaction between gas and liquid, separation of glycerol on-line and cyclic utilization of methanol. Orthogonal experimental design and response surface methodology were adopted to optimize technological parameters. A second-order polynomial model for the biodiesel yield was established and validated experimentally. The high determination coefficient (R2=98.98%) and the low probability value (Pr&lt;0.0001) proved that the model matched the experimental data, and had a high predictive ability. The optimal technological parameters were: 81.5°C reaction temperature, 51.7cm fill height of catalyst KF/CaO and 105.98kPa system pressure. Under these conditions, the average yield of triplicate experiments was 93.7%, indicating the continuous-flow process has good potential in the manufacture of biodiesel. 2012 .

Synthesis of palladium nanoparticles supported on mesoporous n-doped carbon and their catalytic ability for biofuel upgrade
We report a catalyst made of Pd nanoparticles (NPs) supported on mesoporous N-doped carbon, Pd@CN0132, which was shown to be highly active in promoting biomass refining. The use of a task-specific ionic liquid (3-methyl-1-butylpyridine dicyanamide) as a precursor and silica NPs as a hard template afforded a high-nitrogen-content (12 wt %) mesoporous carbon material that showed high activity in stabilizing Pd NPs. The resulting Pd@CN 0.132 catalyst showed very high catalytic activity in hydrodeoxygenation of vanillin (a typical model compound of lignin) at low H2 pressure under mild conditions in aqueous media. Excellent catalytic results (100% conversion of vanillin and 100% selectivity for 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol) were achieved, and no loss of catalytic activity was observed after six recycles. 2012 American Chemical Society.

Transesterification of soybean oil using CsF/CaO catalysts
Fatty acid methyl ether (FAME) is a green biofuel that can be used as an alternative fuel to replace conventional petroleum. A novel solid base catalyst, CsF/CaO, was used to catalyze the transesterification of soybean oil to produce FAME. This catalyst showed strong basicity, resulting in high reactivity on transesterification. With an 8% catalyst dosage, 12:1 molar ratio of methanol to oil and 1% water content in oil, the FAME yield reached 98% at 65 °C in 1 h. Moreover, the catalyst also exhibited high resistance to water, which allowed more flexibility for biodiesel mass production. The transesterification of soybean oil followed a second-order reversible kinetic rate equation. The forward reaction rate constants and apparent activation energy were evaluated. Comparisons with the experimental data indicated that the kinetic model was suitable for predicting the yield of FAME. 2012 American Chemical Society.

Preparation of biodiesel catalysed by KF/CaO with ultrasound
Biodiesel, chemically consists of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) produced by methanolysis of natural triglycerides, such as animal fats and vegetable oils, is a kind of biomass energy, which is renewable and ecofriendly. In this article, KF/CaO was used as solid base catalyst for transesterification of soya bean oil and methanol, while ultrasound as supplementary means. Compared to mechanical stirring, ultrasound treatment is an effective method to increase the yield of FAME and shorten reaction time. By single-factor method, the optimisation of reaction conditions has been studied. The research showed that the optimum reaction conditions were: w(catalyst)/w(oil): 3%, reaction temperature: 65°C, n(methanol)/n(oil): 12, reaction time: 1h, sound intensity: 1.01Wcm-2, frequency: 20kHz, the yield of FAME could be 97%. 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.

Green nanotechnology of trends in future energy: A review
It is well known that current fossil fuel usage is unsustainable and associated with greenhouse gas production. The amount of the world's primary energy supply provided by renewable energy technologies is urgently required. Therefore, the relevant technologies such as hydrogen fuel, solar cell, biotechnology based on nanotechnology, and the relevant patents for exploiting the future energy for the friendly environment are reviewed. At the same time, it is pointed out that the significantly feasible world's eco-energy for the foreseeable future should not only be realized, but also methods for using the current energy and their by-products more efficiently should be found correspondingly, alongside technologies that will ensure minimal environmental impact. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Enhancement of biodiesel synthesis from soybean oil by potassium fluoride modification of a calcium magnesium oxides catalyst
Transesterification of soybean oil with methanol was carried out in the presence of CaO-MgO and KF-modified CaO-MgO catalysts at atmospheric pressure. While the methyl ester yield for the CaO-MgO catalyst with a ratio of 8:2 (CaO:MgO) was 63.6%, it was 97.9% for the KF-modified catalyst at a 2% catalyst to the reactants (methanol/oil mixture) weight ratio, a temperature of 65°C, a methanol-soybean oil ratio of 9:1 and a reaction time of 2.5h. The KF/CaO-MgO catalyst still yielded 86.7% after four successive uses. The catalytic performance of the KF/CaO-MgO catalyst was attributed to the formation of active KCaF 3 and K 2MgF 4 centers. .

Biomolecule/nanomaterial hybrid systems for nanobiotechnology
The integration of biomolecules with metallic or semiconductor nanoparticles or carbon nanotubes yields new hybrid nanostructures of unique features that combine the properties of the biomolecules and of the nano-elements. These unique features of the hybrid biomolecule/nanoparticle systems provide the basis for the rapid development of the area of nanobiotechnology. Recent advances in the implementation of hybrid materials consisting of biomolecules and metallic nanoparticles or semiconductor quantum dots will be discussed. The following topics will be exemplified: (i) The electrical wiring of redox enzymes with electrodes by means of metallic nanoparticles or carbon nanotubes, and the application of the modified electrodes as amperometric biosensors or for the construction of biofuel cells. (ii) The biocatalytic growth of metallic nanoparticles as a means to construct optical or electrical sensors. (iii) The functionalization of semiconductor quantum dots with biomolecules and the application of the hybrid nanostructures for developing different optical sensors, including intracellular sensor systems. (iv) The use of biomolecule-metallic nanoparticle nanostructures as templates for growing metallic nanowires, and the construction of fuel-driven nano-transporters. 2012 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.

Silica-bonded N-propyl sulfamic acid used as a heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification of soybean oil with methanol
The transesterification of soybean oil with methanol was carried out, to produce biodiesel, over silica-bonded N-propyl sulfamic acid in a heterogeneous manner. Results showed that a maximum conversion of 90.5% was achieved using a 1:20. M ratio of soybean oil to methanol and a catalyst amount of 7.5. wt.% at 423. K for 60. h. It was found that the free fatty acid (FFA) and water present in the feedstock had no significant influence on the catalytic activity to the transesterification reaction. Besides, the catalyst also showed activities towards the esterification reaction of FFAs, in terms of the FFA conversion of 95.6% at 423. K for 30. h. Furthermore, the catalyst could be recovered with a better reusability. .

Functionalized-carbon nanotube supported electrocatalysts and buckypaper-based biocathodes for glucose fuel cell applications
The preparation and testing for electrocatalytic activity of functionalized carbon nanotube (f-CNT) supported Pt and Au-Pt nanoparticles (NPs), and bilirubin oxidase (BOD), are reported. These materials were utilized as oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) cathode electrocatalysts in a phosphate buffer solution (0.2 M, pH 7.4) at 25 °C, in the absence and presence of glucose. Carbon monoxide (CO) stripping voltammetry was applied to determine the electrochemically active surface area (ESA). The ORR performance of the Pt/f-CNTs catalyst was high (specific activity of 80.9 μA cm Pt-2 at 0.8 V vs. RHE) with an open circuit potential within ca. 10 mV of that delivered by state-of-the-art carbon supported platinum catalyst and exhibited better glucose tolerance. The f-CNT support favors a higher electrocatalytic activity of BOD for the ORR than a commercially available carbon black (Vulcan XC-72R). These results demonstrate that f-CNTs are a promising electrocatalyst supporting substrate for biofuel cell applications. . All rights reserved.

Inorganic nanofibers with tailored placement of nanocatalysts for hydrogen production via alkaline hydrolysis of glucose
Monoaxial silica nanofibers containing iron species as well as coaxial nanofibers with a pure silica core and a silica shell containing high concentrations of iron nanocrystals were fabricated via electrospinning precursor solutions, followed by thermal treatment. Tetraethyl-orthosilicate (TEOS) and iron nitrate (Fe(NO3)3) were used as the precursors for the silica and iron phases, respectively. Thermal treatments of as-spun precursor fibers were applied to generate nanocrystals of iron with various oxidation states (pure iron and hematite). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), x-ray diffraction (XRD), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to probe the fiber morphology and crystal structures. The results indicated that the size, phase, and placement of iron nanocrystals can be tuned by varying the precursor concentration, thermal treatment conditions, and processing scheme. The resulting nanofiber/metal systems obtained via both monoaxial and coaxial electrospinning were applied as catalysts to the alkaline hydrolysis of glucose for the production of fuel gas. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and bulk weight change in a furnace with residual gas analysis (RGA) were used to evaluate the performance of the catalysts for various ratios of both Fe to Si, and catalyst to glucose, and the oxidation state of the iron nanocrystals. The product gas is composed of mostly H2 (&gt;96mol%) and CH4 with very low concentrations of CO2 and CO. Due to the clear separation of reaction temperature for H2 and CH4 production, pure hydrogen can be obtained at low reaction temperatures. Our coaxial approach demonstrates that placing the iron species selectively near the fiber surface can lead to two to three fold reduction in catalytic consumption compared to the monoaxial fibers with uniform distribution of catalysts. IOP Publishing Ltd.

Production of biodiesel from mixed waste vegetable oil using an aluminium hydrogen sulphate as a heterogeneous acid catalyst
Al(HSO4)3 heterogeneous acid catalyst was prepared by the sulfonation of anhydrous AlCl3. This catalyst was employed to catalyze transesterification reaction to synthesis methyl ester when a mixed waste vegetable oil was used as feedstock. The physical and chemical properties of aluminum hydrogen sulphate catalyst were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements, energy dispersive X-ray (EDAX) analysis and titration method. The maximum conversion of triglyceride was achieved as 81wt.% with 50min reaction time at 220°C, 16:1molar ratio of methanol to oil and 0.5wt.% of catalyst. The high catalytic activity and stability of this catalyst was related to its high acid site density (-OH, Brönsted acid sites), hydrophobicity that prevented the hydration of -OH group, hydrophilic functional groups (-SO3H) that gave improved accessibility of methanol to the triglyceride. The fuel properties of methyl ester were analyzed. The fuel properties were found to be observed within the limits of ASTM D6751. .

Preparation, characterization and application of heterogeneous solid base catalyst for biodiesel production from soybean oil
A solid base catalyst was prepared by neodymium oxide loaded with potassium hydroxide and investigated for transesterification of soybean oil with methanol to biodiesel. After loading KOH of 30 wt.% on neodymium oxide followed by calcination at 600 °C, the catalyst gave the highest basicity and the best catalytic activity for this reaction. The obtained catalyst was characterized by means of X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), N2 adsorption-desorption measurements and the Hammett indicator method. The catalyst has longer lifetime and maintained sustained activity after being used for five times, and were noncorrosive and environmentally benign. The separate effects of the molar ratio of methanol to oil, reaction temperature, mass ratio of catalyst to oil and reaction time were investigated. The experimental results showed that a 14:1 M ratio of methanol to oil, addition of 6.0% catalyst, 60 °C reaction temperature and 1.5 h reaction time gave the best results and the biodiesel yield of 92.41% was achieved. The properties of obtained biodiesel are close to commercial diesel fuel and is rated as a realistic fuel as an alternative to diesel. .

Design of highly electrocatalytically active carbon sphere chains/Au architectures
An advanced carbon paper (CP) macro-substrate (current collector)/submicro- carbon sphere chains, CSCs (catalyst support)/Au (nanocatalyst) architecture was designed and constructed. Gold was deposited onto the surface of CSCs (several microns in length) through pulsed laser deposition to produce a porous ultra-thin film. In sulfuric acid solution, the CSC/Au electrode exhibited a high real surface area of about 36 times higher than that exhibited by a Au wire electrode. The potential utility of the CSC/Au electrode was demonstrated by investigating the electrocatalytic oxidation of glucose, an important clinical biomolecule for both biosensors and implantable biofuel cells. The CSC/Au electrode displayed a prominent response towards the electrocatalytic oxidation of glucose with a peak current of about 676 times superior to that delivered by a Au wire electrode. Elsevier B.V. All Rights Reserved.

Heterogeneous solid base nanocatalyst: Preparation, characterization and application in biodiesel production
A solid base nanocatalyst was prepared by ZrO 2 loaded with C 4H 4O 6HK and investigated for transesterification of soybean oil with methanol to biodiesel. The obtained nanocatalyst was characterized by means of XRD, FTIR, TEM, TGA, N 2 adsorption-desorption measurements and the Hammett indicator method. TEM photograph showed that the nanocatalyst had granular and porous structures with particle sizes of 10-40nm. The nanocatalyst had longer lifetime and maintained sustained activity after being used for five cycles. The separate effects of the molar ratio of methanol to oil, reaction temperature, nanocatalyst amount and reaction time were investigated. The experimental results showed that a 16:1M ratio of methanol to oil, 6.0% catalyst, 60°C reaction temperature and 2.0h reaction time gave the best results and the biodiesel yield of 98.03% was achieved. Production of biodiesel has positive impact on the utilization of agricultural and forestry products. .

Nano-magnetic catalyst KF/CaO-Fe3O4 for biodiesel production
A nano-magnetic catalyst KF/CaO-Fe3O4 was prepared by a facile impregnation method. The magnetic property of the catalyst was studied by vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM). The results demonstrated that the catalyst was ferromagnetic, and it could be recovered by magnetic separation. The nano-magnetic catalyst was also characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and BET surface area analyzer. It was found that the catalyst possessed a unique porous structure with an average particle diameter of ca. 50nm. Besides, the factors affecting biodiesel yield were investigated, and a desired fatty acid methyl esters yield over 95% was obtained under the optimal conditions. .

Biodiesel production using solid metal oxide catalysts
Biodiesel production is worthy of continued study and optimization of production procedures due to its environmentally beneficial attributes and its renewable nature. Heterogeneous transesterification is considered to be a green process. The process requires neither catalyst recovery nor aqueous treatment steps and very high yields of methyl esters can be obtained, close to the theoretical value. However, heterogeneously catalyzed transesterification generally requires more severe operating conditions, and the performance of heterogeneous catalysts is generally lower than that of the commonly used homogeneous catalysts. Heterogeneous catalysis for biodiesel production has been extensively investigated in the last few years. Many metal oxides have been studied for the transesterification process of oils; these include alkali earth metal oxides, transition metal oxides, mixed metal oxides and supported metal oxides. The use of solid metal oxides as catalysts in oil transesterification is well established, accordingly, researchers' attempts are now focused on how to attain the highest catalyst activity. Catalyst activity is a function of its specific surface area, base strength and base site concentration. High specific surface area, strong base strength and high concentration of base sites are characteristics of an active transesterification catalyst. This review provides a brief overview of the different metal oxides frequently used in the process of transesterification of oils for the production of biodiesel with special reference to the various methods of catalyst preparation and catalyst characterization. Reaction conditions and catalyst leaching analysis are also highlighted. Finally, concluding remarks regarding catalyst selection and catalyst preparation steps are provided. IRSEN, CEERS,IAU.

Stable flexible electrodes with enzyme cluster decorated carbon nanotubes for glucose-driven power source in biosensing applications
Over the years, implantable sensor technology has found many applications in healthcare. Research projects have aimed at improving power supply lifetime for longevity of an implanted sensor system. Miniature power sources, inspired from the biofuel cell principle, can utilize enzymes (proteins) as catalysts to produce energy from fuel(s) that are perennial in the human body. Bio-nanocatalytic hierarchical structures, clusters made of enzyme molecules, can be covalently linked to the electrode's surface to provide better enzyme loading and sustained activity. Carbon nanotube base electrodes, with high surface area for direct electron transfer, and enzyme clusters can achieve efficient enzymatic redox reaction. A redox pair of such bioelectrodes can make up a power source with improved performance. In this study, we have investigated high throughput processes for coupling enzyme catalysts with power harvesting mechanisms via a screen printing process and solution processing. The process incorporates enzyme (glucosse oxidase and catalase) micro-/nanocluster immobilization on the surface of carboxylated (functionalized) carbon nanotubes with screen printed electrodes. The 1-ethyl-3-(3- dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide and N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide amide linkage chemistries were used to bind the enzyme molecules to nanotube surface, and bis[sulfosuccinimidyl] suberate (BS3) was used as the cross-linker between enzymes. Optimized enzyme cross-linking was obtained after 25 min at room temperature with 0.07 mmol BS3/nmol of enzymes, with which 44% of enzymes were immobilized onto the surface of the bioelectrode with only 24% enzyme activity lost. A cell, redox pair of bioelectrodes, was tested under continuous operation. It was able to maintain most of the enzyme activity for 7 days before complete deactivation at 16 days. Thus, the power harvesting mechanism was able to produce power continuously for 7 days. The results were also analyzed to identify impeding factors such as competitive inhibition by reaction byproduct and cathode design, and methods to rectify them have been discussed. Coupling this new and improved nanobiopower cell with a product removal mechanism and enzyme mutagenesis should provide enzyme protection and longevity. This would bring the research one step closer to development of compatible implantable battery technology for medical applications. by ASME.

Hydrodeoxygenation of lignin-derived phenols into alkanes by using nanoparticle catalysts combined with Brensted acidic ionic liquids
Oxy-gone in a tandem: A catalytic system composed of metal nanoparticles (NPs) and a functionalized Brensted acidic ionic liquid (IL), both of which are immobilized in a nonfunctionalized IL, is highly efficient in upgrading lignin-derived phenolic compounds into alkanes; the hydrogenation and dehydration reactions take place in tandem. Figure Presented Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

Nanobiotechnology for the production of biofuels from spent tea
Bioenergy is the only alternative and cheap source of energy which can be made easily available to the world. The present experiment included three steps for the conversion of spent tea (Camellia sinensis) into biofuels. In the first step, spent tea was gasified using Co nano catalyst at 300°C and atmospheric pressure. Catalytic gasification of spent tea yielded 60% liquid extract, 28% fuel gases and 12% charcoal. Gaseous products contain 53.03% ethene, 37.18% methanol and 4.59% methane. In the second step of the experiment, liquid extract of spent tea obtained from gasification, on transesterification gave 40.79% ethyl ester (biodiesel). In the third step, Aspergillus niger's growth on spent tea produced 57.49% bioethanol. This study reports an interesting finding that spent tea (solid waste) could be used not only for the production of biodiesel and bioethanol but also hydrocarbon fuel gases. The world today is consuming several million tons of tea yearly. The present technology could be utilized to produce alternate energy. Academic Journals.

The role of chemistry in the energy challenge
Chemistry with its key targets of providing materials and processes for conversion of matter is at the center stage of the energy challenge. Most energy conversion systems work on (bio)chemical energy carriers and require for their use suitable process and material solutions. The enormous scale of their application demands optimization beyond the incremental improvement of empirical discoveries. Knowledge-based systematic approaches are mandatory to arrive at scalable and sustainable solutions. Chemistry for energy, "ENERCHEM" contributes in many ways already today to the use of fossil energy carriers. Optimization of these processes exemplified by catalysis for fuels and chemicals production or by solid-state lightning can contribute in the near future substantially to the dual challenge of energy use and climate protection being in fact two sides of the same challenge. The paper focuses on the even greater role that ENERCHEM will have to play in the era of renewable energy systems where the storage of solar energy in chemical carries and batteries is a key requirement. A multidisciplinary and diversified approach is suggested to arrive at a stable and sustainable system of energy conversion processes. The timescales for transformation of the present energy scenario will be decades and the resources will be of global economic dimensions. ENERCHEM will have to provide the reliable basis for such technologies based on deep functional understanding. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

In situ aberration corrected-transmission electron microscopy of magnesium oxide nanocatalysts for biodiesels
Biofuels are promising renewable energy sources and can be derived from vegetable oil feedstocks. Although solid catalysts show great promise in plant oil triglyceride transesterification to biodiesel, the identification of active sites and operating surface nanostructures created during their processing is essential for the development of efficient heterogeneous catalysts. Systematic, direct observations of dynamic MgO nanocatalysts from a magnesium hydroxide-methoxide precursor were performed under controlled calcination conditions using novel in situ aberration corrected-transmission electron microscopy at the 0.1 nm level and quantified with catalytic reactivity and physico-chemical studies. Surface structural modifications and the evolution of extended atomic scale glide defects implicate coplanar anion vacancies in active sites in the transesterification of triglycerides to biodiesel. The linear correlation between surface defect density (and therefore polarisability) and activity affords a simple means to fine tune new, energy efficient nanocatalysts for biofuel synthesis. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

A hybrid biofuel cell based on electrooxidation of glucose using ultra-small silicon nanoparticles
The ultra-small silicon nanoparticle was shown to be an electrocatalyst for the electrooxidation of glucose. The oxidation appeared to be a first order reaction which involves the transfer of 1 electron. The oxidation potential showed a low onset of -0.4 V vs. Ag/AgCl (-0.62 V vs. RHE). The particle was used as the anode catalyst of a prototype hybrid biofuel cell, which operated on glucose and hydrogen peroxide. The output power of the hybrid cell showed a dependence on the enzymes used as the cathode catalyst. The power density was optimized to 3.7 μW/cm2 when horseradish peroxidase was replaced by microperoxidase-11 (MP-11). Comparing the output power of the hybrid cell to that of a biofuel cell indicates enhanced cell performance due to the fast reaction kinetics of the particle. The long-term stability of the hybrid cell was characterized by monitoring the cell voltage for 5 days. It appeared to that the robustness of the silicon particle resulted in more cell stability compared to the long-term performance of a biofuel cell. Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Zn1.2H0.6PW12O40 Nanotubes with double acid sites as heterogeneous catalysts for the production of biodiesel from waste cooking oil
Zinc dodecatungstophosphate (Zn1.2H0.6PW 12O40; ZnPW) nanotubes, which feature Lewis acid and Brønsted acid sites, were prepared using cellulose fibers as templates. The structure, acid properties, and catalytic activity of the nanotubes as heterogeneous catalysts for biodiesel production were then studied in detail. The ZnPW nanocatalyst exhibited higher catalytic activities for the simultaneous esterification and transesterification of palmitic acid than the parent acid catalyst 12-tungstophosphoric acid (H3PW12O40). Moreover, the doubly acidic nanotubes led to markedly enhanced yields of methyl esters in the conversion of waste cooking oil (containing 26.89 wt% free fatty acids and 1 % moisture) to biodiesel. The catalyst could be recycled and reused with negligible loss in activity over five cycles. The ZnPW nanocatalyst is acid- and water-tolerant and is an environmentally benign heterogeneous catalyst for the production of biodiesel from low-quality feedstocks. Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH &amp; Co. KGaA.


